PACMPL/Editors.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: PACMPL Editorial Board
---

[Proceedings of the ACM on Programming Languages (PACMPL)](https://dl.acm.org/journal/pacmpl) 
is a Gold Open Access journal publishing research on all aspects of programming languages, 
from design to implementation 
and from mathematical formalisms to empirical studies. Each issue of the journal is devoted 
to a particular subject area within programming languages and will be announced through 
publicized Calls for Papers. All accepted papers receive two rounds of reviewing and authors 
can expect initial decisions regarding submissions in under 3 months. The journal operates 
in close collaboration with the Special Interest Group on Programming Languages (SIGPLAN) 
and is committed to making high-quality peer-reviewed scientific research in programming 
languages free of restrictions on both access and use.


Editor-in-Chief:
  - [Michael Hicks](http://www.cs.umd.edu/~mwh/), University of Maryland, USA

Advisory Board:
  - [Derek Dreyer](https://people.mpi-sws.org/~dreyer/), MPI-SWS, Germany <br>
    Member at Large (Issue POPL)
  - [Stephanie Weirich](https://www.cis.upenn.edu/~sweirich/), University of Pennsylvania, USA <br>
    Member at Large (Issue ICFP)
  - [Hridesh Rajan](https://www.cs.iastate.edu/hridesh), Iowa State University, USA <br>
    Member at Large (Issue OOPSLA)
  - [Alistair Donaldson](https://multicore.doc.ic.ac.uk), Imperial College London, UK <br>
    Member at Large (Issue PLDI)
  - [Jeff Foster](https://www.eecs.tufts.edu/~jfoster/), Tufts University, USA <br>
    Chair of SIGPLAN
  - [Anders Møller](https://cs.au.dk/~amoeller/), Aarhus University, Denmark <br>
    Vice-Chair of SIGPLAN

Senior Editors:
  - [Hongseok Yang](https://sites.google.com/view/hongseokyang/home), KAIST, Korea <br>
    Editor for Volume 6, Issue POPL (January 2022)
  - [Zena M. Ariola](http://ix.cs.uoregon.edu/~ariola/), University of Oregon, USA <br>
    Editor for Volume 6, Issue ICFP (August 2022)
  - [Amal Ahmed](http://www.ccs.neu.edu/home/amal/), Northeastern University, USA <br>
    [Jan Vitek](http://janvitek.org/), Northeastern University, USA <br>
    Editor for Volume 6, Issue OOPSLA (October 2022)

Associate Editors:
  - [Amal Ahmed](http://www.ccs.neu.edu/home/amal/), Northeastern University, USA <br>
    Editor for Volume 7, Issue POPL (January 2023)
  - [Nate Foster](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/~jnfoster/), Cornell University, USA <br>
    Editor for Volume 7, Issue PLDI (June 2023)
  - [Sam Lindley](https://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/slindley/), University of Edinburgh, UK <br>
    Editor for Volume 7, Issue ICFP (August 2023)
  - [Mira Mezini](https://www.stg.tu-darmstadt.de/main_stg/staff_stg/mira_mezini_1.en.jsp), TU Darmstadt, Germany <br>
    Editor for Volume 7, Issue OOPSLA (October 2023)

Assistant Editors:
  - [Derek Dreyer](https://people.mpi-sws.org/~dreyer/), MPI-SWS, Germany <br>
    Editor for Volume 8, Issue POPL (January 2024)
  - [John Regehr](https://www.cs.utah.edu/~regehr/), University of Utah, USA <br>
    Editor for Volume 8, Issue PLDI (June 2024)
  - [Brigitte Pientka](https://www.cs.mcgill.ca/~bpientka/), McGill University, Canada <br>
    Editor for Volume 8, Issue ICFP (August 2024)
  - [Alex Potanin](https://potanin.github.io), Australian National University <br>
    Editor for Volume 8, Issue OOPSLA (October 2024)

Information Director:
  - [Adrian Sampson](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/~asampson/), Cornell University, USA <br>

Commit message:

Fix OOPSLA issues and editors

PACMPL/Editors.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: PACMPL Editorial Board
---

[Proceedings of the ACM on Programming Languages (PACMPL)](https://dl.acm.org/journal/pacmpl) 
is a Gold Open Access journal publishing research on all aspects of programming languages, 
from design to implementation 
and from mathematical formalisms to empirical studies. Each issue of the journal is devoted 
to a particular subject area within programming languages and will be announced through 
publicized Calls for Papers. All accepted papers receive two rounds of reviewing and authors 
can expect initial decisions regarding submissions in under 3 months. The journal operates 
in close collaboration with the Special Interest Group on Programming Languages (SIGPLAN) 
and is committed to making high-quality peer-reviewed scientific research in programming 
languages free of restrictions on both access and use.


Editor-in-Chief:
  - [Michael Hicks](http://www.cs.umd.edu/~mwh/), University of Maryland, USA

Advisory Board:
  - [Derek Dreyer](https://people.mpi-sws.org/~dreyer/), MPI-SWS, Germany <br>
    Member at Large (Issue POPL)
  - [Stephanie Weirich](https://www.cis.upenn.edu/~sweirich/), University of Pennsylvania, USA <br>
    Member at Large (Issue ICFP)
  - [Hridesh Rajan](https://www.cs.iastate.edu/hridesh), Iowa State University, USA <br>
    Member at Large (Issue OOPSLA)
  - [Alistair Donaldson](https://multicore.doc.ic.ac.uk), Imperial College London, UK <br>
    Member at Large (Issue PLDI)
  - [Jeff Foster](https://www.eecs.tufts.edu/~jfoster/), Tufts University, USA <br>
    Chair of SIGPLAN
  - [Anders Møller](https://cs.au.dk/~amoeller/), Aarhus University, Denmark <br>
    Vice-Chair of SIGPLAN

Senior Editors:
  - [Hongseok Yang](https://sites.google.com/view/hongseokyang/home), KAIST, Korea <br>
    Editor for Volume 6, Issue POPL (January 2022)
  - [Zena M. Ariola](http://ix.cs.uoregon.edu/~ariola/), University of Oregon, USA <br>
    Editor for Volume 6, Issue ICFP (August 2022)
  - [Amal Ahmed](http://www.ccs.neu.edu/home/amal/), Northeastern University, USA <br>
    Editor for Volume 6, Issues OOPSLA1 and OOPSLA2 (April and October 2022)
  - [Jan Vitek](http://janvitek.org/), Northeastern University, USA <br>
    Editor for Volume 6, Issues OOPSLA1 and OOPSLA2 (April and October 2022)

Associate Editors:
  - [Amal Ahmed](http://www.ccs.neu.edu/home/amal/), Northeastern University, USA <br>
    Editor for Volume 7, Issue POPL (January 2023)
  - [Nate Foster](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/~jnfoster/), Cornell University, USA <br>
    Editor for Volume 7, Issue PLDI (June 2023)
  - [Sam Lindley](https://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/slindley/), University of Edinburgh, UK <br>
    Editor for Volume 7, Issue ICFP (August 2023)
  - [Mira Mezini](https://www.stg.tu-darmstadt.de/main_stg/staff_stg/mira_mezini_1.en.jsp), TU Darmstadt, Germany <br>
    Editor for Volume 7, Issues OOPSLA1 and OOPSLA2 (April and October 2023)

Assistant Editors:
  - [Derek Dreyer](https://people.mpi-sws.org/~dreyer/), MPI-SWS, Germany <br>
    Editor for Volume 8, Issue POPL (January 2024)
  - [John Regehr](https://www.cs.utah.edu/~regehr/), University of Utah, USA <br>
    Editor for Volume 8, Issue PLDI (June 2024)
  - [Brigitte Pientka](https://www.cs.mcgill.ca/~bpientka/), McGill University, Canada <br>
    Editor for Volume 8, Issue ICFP (August 2024)
  - [Alex Potanin](https://potanin.github.io), Australian National University <br>
    Editor for Volume 8, Issues OOPSLA1 and OOPSLA2 (April and October 2024)

Information Director:
  - [Adrian Sampson](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/~asampson/), Cornell University, USA <br>
