Conferences.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "SIGPLAN Conferences"
---
SIGPLAN [sponsors](/Resources/Proposals/Sponsored) or co-sponsors
the premier conferences in the area of programming language
research, providing the opportunity for researchers, developers,
practitioners, and students to present the latest research
advances. The conferences listed on this page are sponsored by
SIGPLAN.
ACM maintains a
[master conference calendar](http://campus.acm.org/calendar/index.cfm?Sponsor=SIGPLAN)
for SIGPLAN.

SIGPLAN also supports conferences through
[in-cooperation](/Resources/Proposals/Cooperated) status.

* * * * *

**Principles of Programming Languages ([POPL](/Conferences/POPL))**  
Principles of Programming Languages is the premier forum for the
fundamental innovations in design, definition, analysis,
transformation, and implementation of programming languages,
programming systems, and programming abstractions.

**Principles and Practices of Parallel Programming ([PPOPP](/Conferences/PPOPP))**  
Principles and Practices of Parallel Programming provides a forum
for papers on the principles and foundations of parallel
programming, tools and techniques for parallel programming, and
experiences in using parallel programming to solve applications
problems.

**Programming Language Design and Implementation ([PLDI](/Conferences/PLDI))**  
Programming Language Design and Implementation is the premier forum
for research on programming language design and implementation.

**OOPSLA ([OOPSLA](/Conferences/OOPSLA) @ [SPLASH](/Conferences/SPLASH))**  
OOPSLA is the premier conference for industry and and academic
experts to report innovations in object technology, programmer
productivity, secure and reliable software, and ultra-large scale
systems.

**International Conference on Functional Programming ([ICFP](/Conferences/ICFP))**  
The International Conference on Functional Programming is the
premier forum for the design, implementations, and uses of
functional programming.

**The Programming Languages Mentoring Workshop ([PLMW](/Conferences/PLMW))**  
The purpose of this mentoring workshop is to encourage graduate
students (PhD and MSc) and senior undergraduate students to pursue
careers in programming language research. This workshop will provide
technical sessions on cutting-edge research in programming languages,
and mentoring sessions on how to prepare for a research career. We
will bring together leaders in programming language research from
academia and industry to give talks on their research areas. The
workshop will engage students in a process of imagining how they might
contribute to our research community.


**Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems ([ASPLOS](/Conferences/ASPLOS))**  
The International Conference on Architectural Support for
Programming Languages and Operating Systems provides a high-quality
forum for scientists and engineers to present their latest research
findings in these rapidly changing fields. It has captured some of
the major computer systems innovations of the past 15 years (e.g.,
RISC and VLIW processors, small and large-scale multiprocessors,
clusters and networks-of-workstations, optimizing compilers, RAID,
and network-storage system designs). ASPLOS is co-sponsored with
[SIGARCH](http://www.acm.org/sigs/sigarch/) and
[SIGOPS](http://www.sigops.org/).&#160;

**Code Generation and Optimization ([CGO](http://www.cgo.org))**  
The International Symposium on Code Generation and Optimization
(CGO) provides a premier venue to bring together researchers and
practitioners working at the interface of hardware and software on
a wide range of optimization and code generation techniques and
related issues. The conferences spans the spectrum from purely
static to fully dynamic approaches, including techniques ranging
from pure software-based methods to architectural features and
support.

**Dynamic Languages Symposium ([DLS](/Conferences/DLS) @ [SPLASH](/Conferences/SPLASH))**  
The Dynamic Languages Symposium (DLS) is a forum for discussion of
dynamic languages, their implementation, and application.

**Generative Programming: Concepts and Experiences ([GPCE](http://program-transformation.org/Gpce))**  
Generative Programming: Concepts &amp; Experiences is a conference
promoting the application and innovation of foundational techniques
for supporting automatic program generation.

**International Symposium on Memory Management ([ISMM](/Conferences/ISMM))**
The International Symposium on Memory Management, focuses on
garbage collection, dynamic storage allocation, storage management
implementation techniques, plus interactions with languages and
operating systems, and empirical studies of programs' memory
allocation and referencing behavior.

**Languages, Compilers, and Tools for Embedded Systems&#160;([LCTES](/Conferences/LCTES))**  
LCTES provides a link between the programming languages and
embedded systems engineering communities. Researchers and
developers in these areas are addressing many similar problems, but
with different backgrounds and approaches. LCTES is intended to
expose researchers and developers from either area to relevant work
and interesting problems in the other area and provide a forum
where they can interact.

**Haskell Symposium ([HS](http://www.haskell.org/haskell-symposium/))**  
The Haskell Symposium is an annual symposium organized in
affiliation with the International Conference on Functional
Programming (ICFP). The purpose of the Haskell Symposium is to
discuss experience with Haskell, and future developments for the
language. The scope of the symposium includes all aspects of the
design, semantics, theory, application, implementation, and
teaching of Haskell.

**History of Programming Languages ([HOPL](https://hopl4.sigplan.org/))**  
The goal of the History of Programming Languages conference is to
produce an accurate historical record of programming language
design and development. HOPL-IV will be held in 2020 with PLDI'20.
HOPL-I was held in 1978 in Los Angeles, CA.
HOPL-II was held in 1993 in Cambridge, MA.
HOPL-III was held in 2007 in San Diego, CA.

**Onward! ([Onward](/Conferences/Onward)  @ [SPLASH](/Conferences/SPLASH))**  
Onward! is a symposium on new ideas in programming and reflections on
software. Welcomed are papers that propose and argue for new
approaches to the creation of software as well as reflections on
technology and ideas bearing on programming broadly construed.

**Software Language Engineering ([SLE](http://www.sleconf.org/))**  
The International Conference on Software Language Engineering (SLE) is
devoted to the engineering principles of software languages: their
design, their implementation, and their evolution.

**Virtual Execution Environments ([VEE](/Conferences/VEE))**  
The goal of the International Conference on Virtual Execution
Environments is to be a first-rate research forum that brings
together leading practitioners and researchers in the broad area of
virtualization, which includes topics such as high-level language
virtual machines (JVM, CLR, etc.), process and system virtual
machines, translators, machine emulators, and simulators.
Previously, research results on these topics have been scattered
among a number of different venues in the languages (VM, PLDI,
OOPSLA, IVME), operating systems (SOSP, OSDI, USENIX), and
architecture (ASPLOS, CGO, PACT) communities.

Commit message:

Small reorg of the information for conference organizers

Conferences.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "SIGPLAN Conferences"
---
SIGPLAN organizes the
premier conferences and workshops in the area of programming language
research, providing opportunities for researchers, developers,
practitioners, and students to present their latest research
advances.  

- ACM's 
[master conference calendar](http://campus.acm.org/calendar/index.cfm?Sponsor=SIGPLAN)
for SIGPLAN.
- Information for [conference organizers](/Resources/Guidelines/ConferenceOrganizers) 

* * * * *

<!--- (BCP) Is this the correct list of "regularly sponsored" conferences? 
      (E.g., should CGO be included?) --->

The conferences listed below are regularly sponsored by SIGPLAN.

**Principles of Programming Languages ([POPL](/Conferences/POPL))**  
Principles of Programming Languages is the premier forum for the
fundamental innovations in design, definition, analysis,
transformation, and implementation of programming languages,
programming systems, and programming abstractions.

**Principles and Practices of Parallel Programming ([PPOPP](/Conferences/PPOPP))**  
Principles and Practices of Parallel Programming provides a forum
for papers on the principles and foundations of parallel
programming, tools and techniques for parallel programming, and
experiences in using parallel programming to solve applications
problems.

**Programming Language Design and Implementation ([PLDI](/Conferences/PLDI))**  
Programming Language Design and Implementation is the premier forum
for research on programming language design and implementation.

**OOPSLA ([OOPSLA](/Conferences/OOPSLA) @ [SPLASH](/Conferences/SPLASH))**  
OOPSLA is the premier conference for industry and and academic
experts to report innovations in object technology, programmer
productivity, secure and reliable software, and ultra-large scale
systems.

**International Conference on Functional Programming ([ICFP](/Conferences/ICFP))**  
The International Conference on Functional Programming is the
premier forum for the design, implementations, and uses of
functional programming.

**The Programming Languages Mentoring Workshop ([PLMW](/Conferences/PLMW))**  
The purpose of this mentoring workshop is to encourage graduate
students (PhD and MSc) and senior undergraduate students to pursue
careers in programming language research. This workshop will provide
technical sessions on cutting-edge research in programming languages,
and mentoring sessions on how to prepare for a research career. We
will bring together leaders in programming language research from
academia and industry to give talks on their research areas. The
workshop will engage students in a process of imagining how they might
contribute to our research community.


**Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems ([ASPLOS](/Conferences/ASPLOS))**  
The International Conference on Architectural Support for
Programming Languages and Operating Systems provides a high-quality
forum for scientists and engineers to present their latest research
findings in these rapidly changing fields. It has captured some of
the major computer systems innovations of the past 15 years (e.g.,
RISC and VLIW processors, small and large-scale multiprocessors,
clusters and networks-of-workstations, optimizing compilers, RAID,
and network-storage system designs). ASPLOS is co-sponsored with
[SIGARCH](http://www.acm.org/sigs/sigarch/) and
[SIGOPS](http://www.sigops.org/).&#160;

**Code Generation and Optimization ([CGO](http://www.cgo.org))**  
The International Symposium on Code Generation and Optimization
(CGO) provides a premier venue to bring together researchers and
practitioners working at the interface of hardware and software on
a wide range of optimization and code generation techniques and
related issues. The conferences spans the spectrum from purely
static to fully dynamic approaches, including techniques ranging
from pure software-based methods to architectural features and
support.

**Dynamic Languages Symposium ([DLS](/Conferences/DLS) @ [SPLASH](/Conferences/SPLASH))**  
The Dynamic Languages Symposium (DLS) is a forum for discussion of
dynamic languages, their implementation, and application.

**Generative Programming: Concepts and Experiences ([GPCE](http://program-transformation.org/Gpce))**  
Generative Programming: Concepts &amp; Experiences is a conference
promoting the application and innovation of foundational techniques
for supporting automatic program generation.

**International Symposium on Memory Management ([ISMM](/Conferences/ISMM))**
The International Symposium on Memory Management, focuses on
garbage collection, dynamic storage allocation, storage management
implementation techniques, plus interactions with languages and
operating systems, and empirical studies of programs' memory
allocation and referencing behavior.

**Languages, Compilers, and Tools for Embedded Systems&#160;([LCTES](/Conferences/LCTES))**  
LCTES provides a link between the programming languages and
embedded systems engineering communities. Researchers and
developers in these areas are addressing many similar problems, but
with different backgrounds and approaches. LCTES is intended to
expose researchers and developers from either area to relevant work
and interesting problems in the other area and provide a forum
where they can interact.

**Haskell Symposium ([HS](http://www.haskell.org/haskell-symposium/))**  
The Haskell Symposium is an annual symposium organized in
affiliation with the International Conference on Functional
Programming (ICFP). The purpose of the Haskell Symposium is to
discuss experience with Haskell, and future developments for the
language. The scope of the symposium includes all aspects of the
design, semantics, theory, application, implementation, and
teaching of Haskell.

**History of Programming Languages ([HOPL](https://hopl4.sigplan.org/))**  
The goal of the History of Programming Languages conference is to
produce an accurate historical record of programming language
design and development. HOPL-IV will be held in 2020 with PLDI'20.
HOPL-I was held in 1978 in Los Angeles, CA.
HOPL-II was held in 1993 in Cambridge, MA.
HOPL-III was held in 2007 in San Diego, CA.

**Onward! ([Onward](/Conferences/Onward)  @ [SPLASH](/Conferences/SPLASH))**  
Onward! is a symposium on new ideas in programming and reflections on
software. Welcomed are papers that propose and argue for new
approaches to the creation of software as well as reflections on
technology and ideas bearing on programming broadly construed.

**Software Language Engineering ([SLE](http://www.sleconf.org/))**  
The International Conference on Software Language Engineering (SLE) is
devoted to the engineering principles of software languages: their
design, their implementation, and their evolution.

**Virtual Execution Environments ([VEE](/Conferences/VEE))**  
The goal of the International Conference on Virtual Execution
Environments is to be a first-rate research forum that brings
together leading practitioners and researchers in the broad area of
virtualization, which includes topics such as high-level language
virtual machines (JVM, CLR, etc.), process and system virtual
machines, translators, machine emulators, and simulators.
Previously, research results on these topics have been scattered
among a number of different venues in the languages (VM, PLDI,
OOPSLA, IVME), operating systems (SOSP, OSDI, USENIX), and
architecture (ASPLOS, CGO, PACT) communities.
