Highlights.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "SIGPLAN Research Highlights"
---

Since 2008, SIGPLAN has selected papers from its sponsored conferences
that are of high quality and broad appeal.  These papers, called
SIGPLAN Research Highlights, are selected by a committee representing
SIGPLAN's major conferences and elected officials.  These papers are
also recommended for consideration for the
[CACM](http://cacm.acm.org/) Research Highlights section.

### Nomination Process

As of 2024, the committee considers papers published in POPL, PLDI,
ICFP, OOPSLA, ASPLOS, and PPoPP, nominated from two sources:

- **Committee**: The SIGPLAN Research Highlights Committee, working
  closely with the program chairs from the conferences they represent,
  will review and nominate papers from the conferences listed above
  for consideration by the full committee.

- **Community**: Any SIGPLAN member may nominate a paper appearing in
  one of six flagship SIGPLAN conferences (from the list above) by
  emailing their nominations to the Highlights Committee Chair.
  Authors may not nominate their own papers.

<!-- Nominations can be made at this [website](http://cacm.sigplan.org). -->

### SIGPLAN Research Highlights Papers

As of September 2021, 62 papers have been recognized by the SIGPLAN
Research Highlights committee, and 34 SIGPLAN papers have been
selected to appear as CACM Research Highlights. This [webpage]({% link
Highlights/Papers.md %}) contains the full list of papers.

### SIGPLAN Research Highlights Committee

Research Highlights Chair: [Ilya Sergey](https://ilyasergey.net/)  
POPL: [Azalea Raad](https://www.soundandcomplete.org/)  
PLDI: [Loris D'Antoni](https://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~ldantoni/)  
ICFP: [Nate Foster](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/~jnfoster/)  
OOPSLA: [Stephen Kell](https://www.kcl.ac.uk/people/stephen-kell)  
ASPLOS: [Michael D. Bond](https://mdbond.github.io/)  
PPoPP: [Erez Petrank](http://www.cs.technion.ac.il/~erez/)  
SIGPLAN Chair: [Andrew C. Myers](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/andru/)  
Past SIGPLAN Chair: [Jeff Foster](https://www.eecs.tufts.edu/~jfoster/)  

<!-- Past Chair, [Emery Berger](http://www.emeryberger.org/), [emery@cs.umass.edu](mailto:emery@cs.umass.edu)   -->


<!-- Further information about the review process that the committee uses -->
<!-- is included in the original -->
<!-- [proposal]({% link sites/default/files/CACM-nominating-committee-proposal.pdf %}). -->

Commit message:

Nomination form link added for 2021-2023

Highlights.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "SIGPLAN Research Highlights"
---

Since 2008, SIGPLAN has selected papers from its sponsored conferences
that are of high quality and broad appeal.  These papers, called
SIGPLAN Research Highlights, are selected by a committee representing
SIGPLAN's major conferences and elected officials.  These papers are
also recommended for consideration for the
[CACM](http://cacm.acm.org/) Research Highlights section.

### SIGPLAN Research Highlights Papers

As of September 2021, 62 papers have been recognized by the SIGPLAN
Research Highlights committee, and 34 SIGPLAN papers have been
selected to appear as CACM Research Highlights. This [webpage]({% link
Highlights/Papers.md %}) contains the full list of papers.


### Nomination Process

The committee considers papers published in POPL, PLDI, ICFP, OOPSLA,
ASPLOS, and PPoPP, nominated from two sources:

- **Committee**: The SIGPLAN Research Highlights Committee, working
  closely with the program chairs from the conferences they represent,
  will review and nominate papers from the conferences listed above
  for consideration by the full committee.

- **Community**: Any SIGPLAN member may nominate a paper appearing in
  one of six flagship SIGPLAN conferences (from the list above) by
  following the guidelines for the respective Call for Nominations
  (see below). Authors may not nominate their own papers.
  
### Call for Nominations for 2021-2023 

SIGPLAN members are invited to submit nominations for the papers
published in 2021-2023 via [this
form](https://forms.gle/y8MM2htdCk1QEGez6). The deadline for the
nominations is **21 November 2024 AoE**.

<!-- Nominations can be made at this [website](http://cacm.sigplan.org). -->

### SIGPLAN Research Highlights Committee

Research Highlights Chair: [Ilya Sergey](https://ilyasergey.net/)  
POPL: [Azalea Raad](https://www.soundandcomplete.org/)  
PLDI: [Loris D'Antoni](https://cseweb.ucsd.edu/~ldantoni/)  
ICFP: [Nate Foster](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/~jnfoster/)  
OOPSLA: [Stephen Kell](https://www.kcl.ac.uk/people/stephen-kell)  
ASPLOS: [Michael D. Bond](https://mdbond.github.io/)  
PPoPP: [Erez Petrank](http://www.cs.technion.ac.il/~erez/)  
SIGPLAN Chair: [Andrew C. Myers](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/andru/)  
Past SIGPLAN Chair: [Jeff Foster](https://www.eecs.tufts.edu/~jfoster/)  

<!-- Past Chair, [Emery Berger](http://www.emeryberger.org/), [emery@cs.umass.edu](mailto:emery@cs.umass.edu)   -->


<!-- Further information about the review process that the committee uses -->
<!-- is included in the original -->
<!-- [proposal]({% link sites/default/files/CACM-nominating-committee-proposal.pdf %}). -->
