TODO.md, before:

NOTES AND THINGS TO DO TO THE SIGPLAN WEB PAGES

* Pending tasks

  - Skim all documents
  - Read through all documents under /Resources, especially
       Resources/Guidelines
       Resources/Policies
  - Read through the Google doc, incorporate what's useful elsewhere, and
    mark it deprecated
      - update the "Conference Information" column of the left bar of
        sigplan.org if needed
            - Remove the "Conference Policies" reference (to the Google doc
              at the bottom)!
  - Read through the conference-specific documents (Principles of POPL, etc.)
    and see if there are any duplications / inconsistencies
  - (Azadeh) Trim the "private information for GCs" document and make sure
    that it ONLY contains sensitive information that does not belong in 
    public places
  - Try to check / inquire why sigplan.org is so slow!

  - fix http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Proposals/Sponsored/
       to make the steps clearer, esp in "what happens next"

  - make sure that a pointer to the PC template is included in all
         conference-specific documents

  - These pages say that the PC Chair is for EC Chair and Vice-Chair to approve:
       http://sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/SCommittee/
       http://sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/GenChair/

  - the ProChair page seems to have bitrotted a bit, for instance in
    assuming all submissions are using two-column format (no mention
    of PACMPL) and being processed by Sheridan.


* Tidying to do

Dead / outdated pages (delete)
  ./Committees/SCChairs.md
     - not referenced at all, and out of date
  ./Resources/OMP.md
     - referenced from Links.yaml but way out of date
  ./Resources/Policies/ErrataAndAcademicDisputes.md
     - commented out in _data/Links.yaml
  ./Resources/AnnualReports.md
     - referenced from Links.yaml but way out of date

On the front page (coordinate with Harry Xu about changes here):
  - some of the award information is out of date (e.g., the OOPSLA most
    influential paper award, the list of ACM fellows)
  - the CC conference is missing, and the rest of the list should be
    reordered with the flagship conferences at the top -- the current order
    is kind of random.  (Harry will do this one.)
  - the "author information" item doesn't really fit with the rest of
    "conference information".  How about we break it out into a separate
    category all by itself?  

* Plan

BCP will take the lead till mid July
Azadeh will work in early August
aim to reach a checkpoint by mid August

* Documents

    - A google doc that Yannis wrote

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1w5T6bGmUO-8vjHSHpwegkpyFzYypi9HcheUxMTjo-Jw/edit

- For each the major conferences, a document that codifies
  its contract with the community.  (Principles of POPL,
  Practices of PLDI, etc.)
  
     https://popl.mpi-sws.org/PrinciplesofPOPL.pdf
     http://www.sigplan.org/sites/default/files/PracticesofPLDI.pdf
     https://www.icfpconference.org/TheFunctioningofICFP.pdf
     (what about OOPSLA)

** Yannis's explanation

1) A SIGPLAN Conference Policies google doc (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1w5T6bGmUO-8vjHSHpwegkpyFzYypi9HcheUxMTjo-Jw/edit)
2) For each the major conferences, a document that
codifies its contract with the community.  (Principles of
POPL, Practices of PLDI, etc.)
3) A document I haven?t seen that apparently you were
asked to create codifying commonalities between these
contracts.

1 and 3 are the same, as you suspected. This document is
derived from #2 and is not intended to replace the #2
documents. (The Steering Committees know best the
extensions and refinements of the common document that
they need for their community.) Instead, the #1/#3
document is intended a) for SIGPLAN conferences that don't
have their own "constitution", b) as a baseline for future
constitutions.

Now on the GC/PC documents:

4) Several public web pages listing policies and guides on
the SIGPLAN web site ? e.g., Guidelines for the General
Chair of a SIGPLAN Event
<http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/GenChair/> and


    Guidelines for the Program Chair of a SIGPLAN Event
    <http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/ProChair/>.

5) A .txt document with private GC guidelines, to be
shared by Annabel to GCs.

#4 is the standard SIGPLAN set of documents. It contains
what we want the community to know about conferences, the
role of the GC/PC, etc. Most of the text in these is
inherited from the depths of time. #5 (which I've sent to
Azadeh and Jens by email) concerns financial issues (i.e.,
revenue sharing with workshops) and hence is not intended
for public sharing. It contains the currently-approved
guidelines to GCs regarding what they *should* pass on to
satellite events (i.e., money and accommodations that
should be guaranteed to secondary conferences and
workshops of one of the big SIGPLAN events).

Generally I and possibly the information director
(Matthew) have been responsible for these documents. But
really, "responsible" has had a loose meaning: every
non-trivial change has been approved by the whole EC,
either via on-Piazza or via in-person discussions. On most
of these topics there are extensive Piazza conversations,
which I've linked in my emails to Azadeh or you can find
via search.

Hope this helps...
   Yannis.

** Full email from Yannis

Yannis:  Many thanks for your list of 
  "topics that people die to know about".
I am on board: we gotta have policies and improved documents
about those topics.

Azadeh: Let us work us on this!  We need a process;
what do you suggest?  You might run Yannis' points by
the SIGPLAN EC, which includes many experienced conference 
and workshop organizers.
--Jens

Quoting Yannis Smaragdakis (yannis@smaragd.org):
Let me briefly comment:

- Consolidation will be very welcome. It would be good to have a
streamlined set of documents. My fear is that they will degenerate
in the current set of documents, if they need to include all the
information currently there. Also, there *is* a current "landing
page" of sorts: the "Conference Information" column of the left bar
of sigplan.org.  Everything is reachable from there, and rarely
requires two clicks.

- If one wants to identify the real needs of the community, I'd say
these are the clarification and codification of what event
organizers need to do in terms of
sponsorship/in-cooperation/co-location status and what control
SIGPLAN exerts. (Multiple people have told me this at conferences
and I've raised the topic before.)

Basically, I'm saying that it's perhaps wrong to focus on the
Steering <http://sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/SCommittee>/GC
<http://sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/GenChair>/PC
<http://sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/ProChair> part of the
SIGPLAN Conference Information. That's kind of commonplace info, and
well-codified. The real wasp's nest over people's heads is the
Sponsorship
<http://sigplan.org/Resources/Proposals/Sponsored>/In-cooperation
<http://sigplan.org/Resources/Proposals/Cooperated>/colocation
<http://sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/Colocation> documents.
Although they don't seem to say anything wrong, there is a lot of
important information implied, or just omitted.

Here are is a sampling of specific topics that people die to know
about (also some include SIGPLAN policy decisions):

  * There is the concept of "standing sponsorship" by SIGPLAN, such
as that enjoyed by most of the long-running conferences we all know.
Where is this documented? How is it differentiated from the normal
sponsorship forms, as far as the SC or the GC of the year is
concerned? What freedom does a conference *lose* if they apply for
such sponsorship?

  * I have a secondary conference that I want to affiliate with one
of the main SIGPLAN conferences. Do I apply for SIGPLAN sponsorship
<http://sigplan.org/Resources/Proposals/Sponsored/>? Or do I just
talk to the main conference's GC for the specific year and he/she
assumes financial responsibility? (Both are legitimate ways, which
is confusing, and people just don't know about this.) Also, for
workshops there is a clear distinction between SIGPLAN-approved and
conference-approved
<http://sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/Workshops/>, but the name
"workshop" is a problem for many events--see next point.

  * We have an event that we fear that, if it gets SIGPLAN status,
it will be demoted to a "workshop", because it only gets <100
attendees. But it's very important to us that the event be called a
"conference": otherwise it doesn't count as a publication for
anyone. What options do we have? Only special deals every year for
co-location with one of ICFP/OOPSLA/PLDI/POPL? (Note that some of
the norms about the naming of events have to do with tradition,
which is opaque and does not reassure people.) Also, what are the
specific rules for naming an event a "symposium"? (Neither a
"conference" nor a "workshop" but synonym to "conference" for most
purposes.) If the rule is that it's a workshop with tons of
attendees (see "Haskell Symposium") why does ISMM get to be called a
"symposium"? How about the DLS (Dynamic Languages Symposium)? (Just
that they have it in the acronym? Nice loophole that others may want
to exploit!) How about the "Scala Symposium"? Can *any* workshop
call themselves a symposium if they commit to run forever? What
repercussions does this have for proceedings publishing? (Also see a
related Piazza discussion
<https://piazza.com/group/hi3oetct4zo4lo?cid=503>, which implies a
decision on more liberal "Symposium" naming has been made, just not
communicated to anyone.)

Codifying and publicly documenting the above is the main pain point
I see in the community. I think you get a glimpse of the rabbithole.

Good luck in the new EC!
   Yannis.



On 09/16/2018 01:06 AM, Benjamin C. Pierce wrote:
? Of course, this will still leave open the question of how we
/communicate/ where people should look.  But I think that question
is easier: new GCs will know that they need some instructions, so
they will either look around or ask; then, if part of the
instructions are ?you should tell your PC chair, workshops chair,
etc. to read this document too,? we will be all set.

  - B


On Sep 15, 2018, at 6:03 PM, Benjamin C. Pierce
<bcpierce@cis.upenn.edu <mailto:bcpierce@cis.upenn.edu>> wrote:

This is all as I suspected? :-|

Azadeh was busy this week and has not had a chance yet to look
over all the documents.  I suggest that, once she has, she and I
(in consultation with the rest of you, perhaps omitting Yannis
who has already done his time :-) try to put together a
streamlined set of documents, both public and private, with a
single ?landing page" for all users (GC, PCCs, workshop
organizers, workshop chairs) and instructions about what other
documents each set of users should be looking at.

    - B


On Sep 14, 2018, at 3:12 AM, Peter Thiemann
<thiemann@informatik.uni-freiburg.de
<mailto:thiemann@informatik.uni-freiburg.de>> wrote:

Generally, this is not well communicated. Someone would have
to be proactive.
Jan (Vitek) told me that he made phone calls with prospective GCs.
These days much is communicated via Annabel, but she only
knows about the financial aspects.
I started calling up the workshop chairs to avoid last-minute
annoyances.

Cheers
-Peter

On 13. September 2018 at 23:49:28, Benjamin C. Pierce
(bcpierce@cis.upenn.edu <mailto:bcpierce@cis.upenn.edu>)
wrote:

Many thanks, Yannis!  That makes things much clearer.

So is the intention that conference organizers (e.g., the GC
and PC chairs of the next POPL or whatever) look at 1/3 + 5,
or at 1/3 + 4 + 5, or??  How is this expectation
communicated to new GCs / PC chairs?

   - B


On Sep 10, 2018, at 9:17 AM, Yannis Smaragdakis
<yannis@smaragd.org <mailto:yannis@smaragd.org>> wrote:

Dear Benjamin,
Let's start with the first three, numbered:

1) A SIGPLAN Conference Policies google doc (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1w5T6bGmUO-8vjHSHpwegkpyFzYypi9HcheUxMTjo-Jw/edit)
2) For each the major conferences, a document that
codifies its contract with the community.  (Principles of
POPL, Practices of PLDI, etc.)
3) A document I haven?t seen that apparently you were
asked to create codifying commonalities between these
contracts.

1 and 3 are the same, as you suspected. This document is
derived from #2 and is not intended to replace the #2
documents. (The Steering Committees know best the
extensions and refinements of the common document that
they need for their community.) Instead, the #1/#3
document is intended a) for SIGPLAN conferences that don't
have their own "constitution", b) as a baseline for future
constitutions.

Now on the GC/PC documents:

4) Several public web pages listing policies and guides on
the SIGPLAN web site ? e.g., Guidelines for the General
Chair of a SIGPLAN Event
<http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/GenChair/> and


    Guidelines for the Program Chair of a SIGPLAN Event
    <http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/ProChair/>.

5) A .txt document with private GC guidelines, to be
shared by Annabel to GCs.

#4 is the standard SIGPLAN set of documents. It contains
what we want the community to know about conferences, the
role of the GC/PC, etc. Most of the text in these is
inherited from the depths of time. #5 (which I've sent to
Azadeh and Jens by email) concerns financial issues (i.e.,
revenue sharing with workshops) and hence is not intended
for public sharing. It contains the currently-approved
guidelines to GCs regarding what they *should* pass on to
satellite events (i.e., money and accommodations that
should be guaranteed to secondary conferences and
workshops of one of the big SIGPLAN events).

Generally I and possibly the information director
(Matthew) have been responsible for these documents. But
really, "responsible" has had a loose meaning: every
non-trivial change has been approved by the whole EC,
either via on-Piazza or via in-person discussions. On most
of these topics there are extensive Piazza conversations,
which I've linked in my emails to Azadeh or you can find
via search.

Hope this helps...
   Yannis.



On 09/10/2018 02:42 PM, Benjamin C. Pierce wrote:
Conversely, it just occurred to me that (1) and (3) on
my list might be the same document!

Ooof.

On Sep 10, 2018, at 7:40 AM, Benjamin C. Pierce
<bcpierce@cis.upenn.edu
<mailto:bcpierce@cis.upenn.edu>> wrote:

P.S.  Just realized that there may be one more
document, separate from these ? a common SIGPLAN
General Chair?s Guide.  Is that right?


On Sep 10, 2018, at 7:38 AM, Benjamin C. Pierce
<bcpierce@cis.upenn.edu
<mailto:bcpierce@cis.upenn.edu>> wrote:

Dear Yannis,

We've seen or heard mention of several documents
that seem to have overlapping purposes and
audiences?

-  A SIGPLAN Conference Policies google doc
  (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1w5T6bGmUO-8vjHSHpwegkpyFzYypi9HcheUxMTjo-Jw/edit)
-  For each the major conferences, a document that codifies
  its contract with the community.  (Principles of POPL,
  Practices of PLDI, etc.)
-  A document I haven?t seen that apparently you were asked to
  create codifying commonalities between these contracts.
-  Several public web pages listing policies and guides on the
  SIGPLAN web site ? e.g., Guidelines for the General Chair
  of a SIGPLAN Event
  <http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/GenChair/> and


        Guidelines for the Program Chair of a SIGPLAN Event
        <http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/ProChair/>.

Can you help me and Azadeh understand the exact
relation between them?

Also, what has been the understanding who is
responsible for which of these documents?

Thanks!

 - Benjamin

Commit message:

Bunch of polishing and comments / questions

TODO.md, after:

NOTES AND THINGS TO DO TO THE SIGPLAN WEB PAGES

* Conventions

- Comments and questions from Benjamin are in HTML comments in the
  respective .md files, marked BCP.  Do "grep -R BCP ." to find them.

* Pending tasks

  - Read through the Google doc, incorporate what's useful elsewhere, and
    mark it deprecated
      - update the "Conference Information" column of the left bar of
        sigplan.org if needed
            - Remove the "Conference Policies" reference (to the Google doc
              at the bottom)!
  - Read through the conference-specific documents (Principles of POPL, etc.)
    and see if there are any duplications / inconsistencies
  - (Azadeh) Trim the "private information for GCs" document and make sure
    that it ONLY contains sensitive information that does not belong in 
    public places
  - Make sure that the main documents (esp. ProChair, GenChair, and
    Workshops) are clearly identified as starting points for
    organizers.  Make sure that someone starting at the SIGPLAN main
    page can easily tell where to begin.

* Pending tidying

Dead / outdated pages (delete)
  ./Committees/SCChairs.md
     - not referenced at all, and out of date
  ./Resources/OMP.md
     - referenced from Links.yaml but way out of date
  ./Resources/Policies/ErrataAndAcademicDisputes.md
     - commented out in _data/Links.yaml
  ./Resources/AnnualReports.md
     - referenced from Links.yaml but way out of date
  ./Resources/Database.md
     - I can't figure out where this is referenced from, but it is
       decades out of date!!
  ./Resources/Events/Cooperated.md
     - I think it is not referenced from anywhere.  Way out of date.
  ./Resources/Guidelines/Colocation.md
     - This is not linked from any of the other guidelines documents,
       though it _is_ linked from the main SIGPLAN page via _data/Links.yaml

On the front page (coordinate with Harry Xu about changes here):
  - some of the award information is out of date (e.g., the OOPSLA most
    influential paper award, the list of ACM fellows)
  - the CC conference is missing, and the rest of the list should be
    reordered with the flagship conferences at the top -- the current order
    is kind of random.  (Harry will do this one.)
  - the "author information" item doesn't really fit with the rest of
    "conference information".  How about we break it out into a separate
    category all by itself?  

* Plan

BCP will take the lead till mid July
Azadeh will work in early August
aim to reach a checkpoint by mid August

* Documents

    - A google doc that Yannis wrote

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1w5T6bGmUO-8vjHSHpwegkpyFzYypi9HcheUxMTjo-Jw/edit

- For each the major conferences, a document that codifies
  its contract with the community.  (Principles of POPL,
  Practices of PLDI, etc.)
  
     https://popl.mpi-sws.org/PrinciplesofPOPL.pdf
     http://www.sigplan.org/sites/default/files/PracticesofPLDI.pdf
     https://www.icfpconference.org/TheFunctioningofICFP.pdf
     (what about OOPSLA)

** Yannis's explanation

1) A SIGPLAN Conference Policies google doc (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1w5T6bGmUO-8vjHSHpwegkpyFzYypi9HcheUxMTjo-Jw/edit)
2) For each the major conferences, a document that
codifies its contract with the community.  (Principles of
POPL, Practices of PLDI, etc.)
3) A document I haven?t seen that apparently you were
asked to create codifying commonalities between these
contracts.

1 and 3 are the same, as you suspected. This document is
derived from #2 and is not intended to replace the #2
documents. (The Steering Committees know best the
extensions and refinements of the common document that
they need for their community.) Instead, the #1/#3
document is intended a) for SIGPLAN conferences that don't
have their own "constitution", b) as a baseline for future
constitutions.

Now on the GC/PC documents:

4) Several public web pages listing policies and guides on
the SIGPLAN web site ? e.g., Guidelines for the General
Chair of a SIGPLAN Event
<http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/GenChair/> and


    Guidelines for the Program Chair of a SIGPLAN Event
    <http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/ProChair/>.

5) A .txt document with private GC guidelines, to be
shared by Annabel to GCs.

#4 is the standard SIGPLAN set of documents. It contains
what we want the community to know about conferences, the
role of the GC/PC, etc. Most of the text in these is
inherited from the depths of time. #5 (which I've sent to
Azadeh and Jens by email) concerns financial issues (i.e.,
revenue sharing with workshops) and hence is not intended
for public sharing. It contains the currently-approved
guidelines to GCs regarding what they *should* pass on to
satellite events (i.e., money and accommodations that
should be guaranteed to secondary conferences and
workshops of one of the big SIGPLAN events).

Generally I and possibly the information director
(Matthew) have been responsible for these documents. But
really, "responsible" has had a loose meaning: every
non-trivial change has been approved by the whole EC,
either via on-Piazza or via in-person discussions. On most
of these topics there are extensive Piazza conversations,
which I've linked in my emails to Azadeh or you can find
via search.

Hope this helps...
   Yannis.

** Full email from Yannis

Yannis:  Many thanks for your list of 
  "topics that people die to know about".
I am on board: we gotta have policies and improved documents
about those topics.

Azadeh: Let us work us on this!  We need a process;
what do you suggest?  You might run Yannis' points by
the SIGPLAN EC, which includes many experienced conference 
and workshop organizers.
--Jens

Quoting Yannis Smaragdakis (yannis@smaragd.org):
Let me briefly comment:

- Consolidation will be very welcome. It would be good to have a
streamlined set of documents. My fear is that they will degenerate
in the current set of documents, if they need to include all the
information currently there. Also, there *is* a current "landing
page" of sorts: the "Conference Information" column of the left bar
of sigplan.org.  Everything is reachable from there, and rarely
requires two clicks.

- If one wants to identify the real needs of the community, I'd say
these are the clarification and codification of what event
organizers need to do in terms of
sponsorship/in-cooperation/co-location status and what control
SIGPLAN exerts. (Multiple people have told me this at conferences
and I've raised the topic before.)

Basically, I'm saying that it's perhaps wrong to focus on the
Steering <http://sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/SCommittee>/GC
<http://sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/GenChair>/PC
<http://sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/ProChair> part of the
SIGPLAN Conference Information. That's kind of commonplace info, and
well-codified. The real wasp's nest over people's heads is the
Sponsorship
<http://sigplan.org/Resources/Proposals/Sponsored>/In-cooperation
<http://sigplan.org/Resources/Proposals/Cooperated>/colocation
<http://sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/Colocation> documents.
Although they don't seem to say anything wrong, there is a lot of
important information implied, or just omitted.

Here are is a sampling of specific topics that people die to know
about (also some include SIGPLAN policy decisions):

  * There is the concept of "standing sponsorship" by SIGPLAN, such
as that enjoyed by most of the long-running conferences we all know.
Where is this documented? How is it differentiated from the normal
sponsorship forms, as far as the SC or the GC of the year is
concerned? What freedom does a conference *lose* if they apply for
such sponsorship?

  * I have a secondary conference that I want to affiliate with one
of the main SIGPLAN conferences. Do I apply for SIGPLAN sponsorship
<http://sigplan.org/Resources/Proposals/Sponsored/>? Or do I just
talk to the main conference's GC for the specific year and he/she
assumes financial responsibility? (Both are legitimate ways, which
is confusing, and people just don't know about this.) Also, for
workshops there is a clear distinction between SIGPLAN-approved and
conference-approved
<http://sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/Workshops/>, but the name
"workshop" is a problem for many events--see next point.

  * We have an event that we fear that, if it gets SIGPLAN status,
it will be demoted to a "workshop", because it only gets <100
attendees. But it's very important to us that the event be called a
"conference": otherwise it doesn't count as a publication for
anyone. What options do we have? Only special deals every year for
co-location with one of ICFP/OOPSLA/PLDI/POPL? (Note that some of
the norms about the naming of events have to do with tradition,
which is opaque and does not reassure people.) Also, what are the
specific rules for naming an event a "symposium"? (Neither a
"conference" nor a "workshop" but synonym to "conference" for most
purposes.) If the rule is that it's a workshop with tons of
attendees (see "Haskell Symposium") why does ISMM get to be called a
"symposium"? How about the DLS (Dynamic Languages Symposium)? (Just
that they have it in the acronym? Nice loophole that others may want
to exploit!) How about the "Scala Symposium"? Can *any* workshop
call themselves a symposium if they commit to run forever? What
repercussions does this have for proceedings publishing? (Also see a
related Piazza discussion
<https://piazza.com/group/hi3oetct4zo4lo?cid=503>, which implies a
decision on more liberal "Symposium" naming has been made, just not
communicated to anyone.)

Codifying and publicly documenting the above is the main pain point
I see in the community. I think you get a glimpse of the rabbithole.

Good luck in the new EC!
   Yannis.



On 09/16/2018 01:06 AM, Benjamin C. Pierce wrote:
? Of course, this will still leave open the question of how we
/communicate/ where people should look.  But I think that question
is easier: new GCs will know that they need some instructions, so
they will either look around or ask; then, if part of the
instructions are ?you should tell your PC chair, workshops chair,
etc. to read this document too,? we will be all set.

  - B


On Sep 15, 2018, at 6:03 PM, Benjamin C. Pierce
<bcpierce@cis.upenn.edu <mailto:bcpierce@cis.upenn.edu>> wrote:

This is all as I suspected? :-|

Azadeh was busy this week and has not had a chance yet to look
over all the documents.  I suggest that, once she has, she and I
(in consultation with the rest of you, perhaps omitting Yannis
who has already done his time :-) try to put together a
streamlined set of documents, both public and private, with a
single ?landing page" for all users (GC, PCCs, workshop
organizers, workshop chairs) and instructions about what other
documents each set of users should be looking at.

    - B


On Sep 14, 2018, at 3:12 AM, Peter Thiemann
<thiemann@informatik.uni-freiburg.de
<mailto:thiemann@informatik.uni-freiburg.de>> wrote:

Generally, this is not well communicated. Someone would have
to be proactive.
Jan (Vitek) told me that he made phone calls with prospective GCs.
These days much is communicated via Annabel, but she only
knows about the financial aspects.
I started calling up the workshop chairs to avoid last-minute
annoyances.

Cheers
-Peter

On 13. September 2018 at 23:49:28, Benjamin C. Pierce
(bcpierce@cis.upenn.edu <mailto:bcpierce@cis.upenn.edu>)
wrote:

Many thanks, Yannis!  That makes things much clearer.

So is the intention that conference organizers (e.g., the GC
and PC chairs of the next POPL or whatever) look at 1/3 + 5,
or at 1/3 + 4 + 5, or??  How is this expectation
communicated to new GCs / PC chairs?

   - B


On Sep 10, 2018, at 9:17 AM, Yannis Smaragdakis
<yannis@smaragd.org <mailto:yannis@smaragd.org>> wrote:

Dear Benjamin,
Let's start with the first three, numbered:

1) A SIGPLAN Conference Policies google doc (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1w5T6bGmUO-8vjHSHpwegkpyFzYypi9HcheUxMTjo-Jw/edit)
2) For each the major conferences, a document that
codifies its contract with the community.  (Principles of
POPL, Practices of PLDI, etc.)
3) A document I haven?t seen that apparently you were
asked to create codifying commonalities between these
contracts.

1 and 3 are the same, as you suspected. This document is
derived from #2 and is not intended to replace the #2
documents. (The Steering Committees know best the
extensions and refinements of the common document that
they need for their community.) Instead, the #1/#3
document is intended a) for SIGPLAN conferences that don't
have their own "constitution", b) as a baseline for future
constitutions.

Now on the GC/PC documents:

4) Several public web pages listing policies and guides on
the SIGPLAN web site ? e.g., Guidelines for the General
Chair of a SIGPLAN Event
<http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/GenChair/> and


    Guidelines for the Program Chair of a SIGPLAN Event
    <http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/ProChair/>.

5) A .txt document with private GC guidelines, to be
shared by Annabel to GCs.

#4 is the standard SIGPLAN set of documents. It contains
what we want the community to know about conferences, the
role of the GC/PC, etc. Most of the text in these is
inherited from the depths of time. #5 (which I've sent to
Azadeh and Jens by email) concerns financial issues (i.e.,
revenue sharing with workshops) and hence is not intended
for public sharing. It contains the currently-approved
guidelines to GCs regarding what they *should* pass on to
satellite events (i.e., money and accommodations that
should be guaranteed to secondary conferences and
workshops of one of the big SIGPLAN events).

Generally I and possibly the information director
(Matthew) have been responsible for these documents. But
really, "responsible" has had a loose meaning: every
non-trivial change has been approved by the whole EC,
either via on-Piazza or via in-person discussions. On most
of these topics there are extensive Piazza conversations,
which I've linked in my emails to Azadeh or you can find
via search.

Hope this helps...
   Yannis.



On 09/10/2018 02:42 PM, Benjamin C. Pierce wrote:
Conversely, it just occurred to me that (1) and (3) on
my list might be the same document!

Ooof.

On Sep 10, 2018, at 7:40 AM, Benjamin C. Pierce
<bcpierce@cis.upenn.edu
<mailto:bcpierce@cis.upenn.edu>> wrote:

P.S.  Just realized that there may be one more
document, separate from these ? a common SIGPLAN
General Chair?s Guide.  Is that right?


On Sep 10, 2018, at 7:38 AM, Benjamin C. Pierce
<bcpierce@cis.upenn.edu
<mailto:bcpierce@cis.upenn.edu>> wrote:

Dear Yannis,

We've seen or heard mention of several documents
that seem to have overlapping purposes and
audiences?

-  A SIGPLAN Conference Policies google doc
  (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1w5T6bGmUO-8vjHSHpwegkpyFzYypi9HcheUxMTjo-Jw/edit)
-  For each the major conferences, a document that codifies
  its contract with the community.  (Principles of POPL,
  Practices of PLDI, etc.)
-  A document I haven?t seen that apparently you were asked to
  create codifying commonalities between these contracts.
-  Several public web pages listing policies and guides on the
  SIGPLAN web site ? e.g., Guidelines for the General Chair
  of a SIGPLAN Event
  <http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/GenChair/> and


        Guidelines for the Program Chair of a SIGPLAN Event
        <http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/ProChair/>.

Can you help me and Azadeh understand the exact
relation between them?

Also, what has been the understanding who is
responsible for which of these documents?

Thanks!

 - Benjamin
