Conferences/DLS.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "Dynamic Languages Symposium (DLS) "
---
The Dynamic Languages Symposium (DLS) is a forum for discussion of
dynamic languages, their implementation and application. While mature
dynamic languages including Smalltalk, Lisp, Scheme, Self, Prolog, and
APL continue to grow and inspire new converts, a new generation of
dynamic scripting languages such as JavaScript, Python, Ruby, PHP, Tcl,
Lua, and Clojure are successful in a wide range of applications. DLS
provides a place for researchers and practitioners to come together and
share their knowledge, experience, and ideas for future research and
development.

DLS 2021
--------

-   Chicago, Illinois, United States, Oct 17, 2021
-   Co-located with SPLASH 2021
-   PC chair: Arjun Guha (Northeastern University)
-   [https://conf.researchr.org/home/dls-2021](https://conf.researchr.org/home/dls-2021)

Awards
------

-   Most Notable Paper Award 2020 for 2010
    -   Recipients: Tom Van Cutsem and Mark S. Miller
    -   Title: Design Principles for Robust Object-oriented Intercession APIs
    -   Conference: DLS 2010
    -   Paper:
        [https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/1869631.1869638](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/1869631.1869638)
    -   Citation: The 2010 DLS paper "Proxies: Design Principles for Robust
        Object-oriented Intercession APIs" is a prime example of the
        object-capability model. In short order, it managed to bridge the gap
        from research to become an integral part of an important language today.

-   Most Notable Paper Award 2019 for 2009
    -   Recipients: Alexander Yermolovich, Christian Wimmer, and Michael Franz
    -   Title: Optimization of Dynamic Languages Using Hierarchical Layering of Virtual Machines
    -   Conference: DLS 2009
    -   Paper:
        [https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1408688](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1408688)
    -   Citation: This 2009 DLS paper is an important early paper in the area of
        meta virtual machines. It showed a simple and effective approach to VM
        construction that was simultaneously explored by multiple research
        groups at the time and which has since found further applications.

-   Most Notable Paper Award 2018 for 2008
    -   Recipients: Jeremy G. Siek and Manish Vachharajani
    -   Title: Gradual Typing With Unification-based Inference
    -   Conference: DLS 2008
    -   Paper:
        [https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=1408681.1408688](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=1408681.1408688)
    -   Citation: The 2008 DLS paper "Gradual Typing With
        Unification-based Inference" showed that one can increase the
        static guarantees made in a program through an ingenious
        combination of gradual typing and unification-base type
        inference. The ideas underlying this paper have found their way
        into the design of many modern programming languages, and have
        had a strong impact on the research community.

-   Most Notable Paper Award 2017 for 2007
    -   Recipients: Stijn Mostinckx, Tom Van Cutsem, Stijn Timbermont, and Éric Tanter
    -   Title: Mirages--Behavioral Intercession in a Mirror-based Architecture
    -   Conference: DLS 2007
    -   Paper:
        [http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1297095](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1297095)
    -   Citation: The 2007 DLS paper "Mirages: Behavioral Intercession
        in a Mirror-based Architecture" combined the ideas of explicit
        mirrors for reflective introspection and modification with
        implicit mirrors for behavioral intercession. The work in this
        paper influenced and inspired the design of proxies in the
        JavaScript language, where it now has applications in areas
        such as security, testing, and virtualization of the DOM.

-   Most Notable Paper Award 2016 for 2006
    -   Recipients: Armin Rigo and Samuele Pedroni
    -   Title: PyPy's Approach to Virtual Machine Construction
    -   Conference: DLS 2006
    -   Paper:
        [http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1176753](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1176753)
    -   Citation: The 2006 DLS paper "PyPy's Approach to Virtual Machine
        Construction" introduced the PyPy Python interpreter and the
        RPython framework. Both are still highly relevant in various
        areas to this day and will continue to be influential for many
        years, thus demonstrating highly impressive long-term vision
        and impact. The paper laid the theoretical and practical
        foundations of constructing a virtual machine from a
        high-level description and was consequently built upon by
        numerous follow-up publications. The software, which continues
        to be developed by a large and active open source community,
        proved extensively usable in multiple academic and industrial
        contexts.

-   Most Notable Paper Award 2015 for 2005
    -   Recipients: Pascal Costanza and Robert Hirschfeld
    -   Title: Language Constructs for Context-oriented Programming--An Overview of ContextL
    -   Conference: DLS 2005
    -   Paper:
        [http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1146842](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1146842)
    -   Citation: The 2005 DLS paper "Language Constructs for
        Context-oriented Programming: An Overview of ContextL"
        introduced a framework that enables programmers to modify the
        behavior of a program based on the context in which it is
        used, without requiring changes to the original program. This
        paper triggered a cascade of research on Context-oriented
        Programming and spawned a community with its own international
        workshop series, which is still going strong today.

Past Events
-----------

- DLS 2020
    -   ~~Chicago, Illinois, USA~~ Everywhere, Nov 18, 2020
    -   Co-located with SPLASH 2020
    -   PC chair: Matthew Flatt
    -   Invited speaker: Vanessa Freudenberg
    -   [https://conf.researchr.org/home/dls-2020](https://conf.researchr.org/home/dls-2020)
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-20/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-20/)

- DLS 2019
    -   Athens, Greece, October 22, 2019
    -   Co-located with SPLASH 2019
    -   PC chair: Stefan Marr (University of Kent)
    -   Invited speaker: Saman P. Amarasinghe
    -   [https://conf.researchr.org/home/dls-2019](https://conf.researchr.org/home/dls-2019)
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-19/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-19/)

- DLS 2018
    -   Boston, Massachusetts, USA, November 6, 2018
    -   Co-located with SPLASH 2018
    -   PC chair: Tim Felgentreff
    -   Invited speaker: Saman P. Amarasinghe
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-18/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-18/)

-   DLS 2017
    -   Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, October 24, 2017
    -   Co-located with SPLASH 2017
    -   PC chair: Davide Ancona
    -   Invited speaker: Filip Pizlo
    -   [http://2017.splashcon.org/track/dls-2017-DLS-2017](http://2017.splashcon.org/track/dls-2017-DLS-2017)
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-17/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-17/)

-   DLS 2016
    -   Amsterdam, The Netherlands, November 1, 2016
    -   Co-located with SPLASH 2016
    -   PC chair: Roberto Ierusalimschy
	-   Invited speaker: Ross McIlroy
    -   [http://2016.splashcon.org/track/dls-2016-papers](http://2016.splashcon.org/track/dls-2016-papers)
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-16/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-16/)

-   DLS 2015
    -   Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA, October 27, 2015
    -   Co-located with SPLASH 2015
    -   PC chair: Manuel Serrano
    -   Invited speaker: Eelco Visser
    -   [http://2015.splashcon.org/track/dls2015](http://2015.splashcon.org/track/dls2015)
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-15/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-15/)

-   DLS 2014
    -   Portland, Oregon, USA, 2014
    -   Co-located with SPLASH 2014
    -   PC chair: Laurence Tratt
    -   Invited speaker: Stefan Udo Hanenberg
    -   [http://2014.splashcon.org/track/dls14-papers](http://2014.splashcon.org/track/dls14-papers)
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-14/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-14/)

-   DLS 2013
    -   Indianapolis, Indiana, USA, October 28, 2013
    -   Co-located with SPLASH 2013
    -   PC chair: Carl Friedrich Bolz
    -   Invited speaker: Mario Wolczko
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-13/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-13/)

-   DLS 2012
    -   Tucson, Arizona, USA, October 22, 2012
    -   Co-located with SPLASH 2012
    -   PC chair: Alessandro Warth
    -   Invited speaker: David A. Smith
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-12/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-12/)

-   DLS 2011
    -   Portland, Oregon, USA, October 24, 2011
    -   Co-located with SPLASH 2011
    -   PC chair: Theo D'Hondt
    -   Invited speakers: Gilad Bracha and David Ungar
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-11/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-11/)

-   DLS 2010
    -   Reno, Nevada, USA, October 18, 2010
    -   Co-located with SPLASH 2010
    -   PC chair: William D. Clinger
    -   Invited speaker: Allen Wirfs-Brock
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-10/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-10/)

-   DLS 2009
    -   Disney's Contemporary Resort
    -   Orlando, Florida, USA, October 26, 2009
    -   Co-located with OOPSLA 2009
    -   PC chair: James Noble
    -   Invited speaker: Jan Vitek
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-09/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-09/)

-   DLS 2008
    -   Paphos, Cyprus, July 8, 2008
    -   Co-located with ECOOP 2008
    -   PC chair: Johan Brichau
    -   Invited speakers: Rich Hickey, Laurence Tratt, and Dan Ingalls
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-08/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-08/)

-   DLS 2007
    -   Montreal, Quebec, Canada, October 22, 2007
    -   Co-located with OOPSLA 2007
    -   PC chairs: Pascal Costanza and Robert Hirschfeld
    -   Invited speakers: Mark S. Miller and Jim Hugunin
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-07/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-07/)

-   DLS 2006
    -   Portland, Oregon, USA, October 23, 2006
    -   Co-located with OOPSLA 2006
    -   PC chair: Robert Hirschfeld
    -   Invited speakers: Ian Piumarta, Audrey Tang, and Avi Bryant
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-06/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-06/)

-   DLS 2005
    -   San Diego, California, USA, October 18, 2005
    -   Co-located with OOPSLA 2005
    -   PC chair: Roel Wuyts
    -   Invited speakers: Gerald Sussman, Gilad Bracha, Jans Aasman, and
        Brian Foote
    -   [http://decomp.ulb.ac.be/events/dls05/](http://decomp.ulb.ac.be/events/dls05/)

Steering Committee Members
--------------------------

### Present

* Chair: Tim Felgentreff, Oracle Labs, Germany (SC Chair 2018-2021, PC Chair 2018)
* Davide Ancona, Universit&agrave; degli studi di Genova, Italy (PC Chair 2017)
* Carl Friedrich Bolz-Tereick, Heinrich-Heine-Universit&auml;t D&uuml;sseldorf, Germany (Past SC Chair 2018-2021, SC Chair 2015-2018, PC Chair 2013)
* Robert Hirschfeld, Hasso Plattner Institute and University of Potsdam, Germany (Member at Large 2018-2020, Past SC Chair 2015-2018, SC Chair 2007-2015, PC Chair 2007, PC Chair 2006)
* Stefan Marr, University of Kent, UK (PC Chair 2019)
* Benjamin C. Pierce, University of Pennsylvania, USA (SIGPLAN 2018-2021)
* Laurence Tratt, King's College London, UK (Emeritus Member 2018-2020, Emeritus Member 2016-2018, PC Chair 2014)

### Past

* Johan Brichau (PC Chair 2008)
* William D. Clinger (PC Chair 2010)
* Pascal Costanza (SC Chair 2007-2013, PC Chair 2007)
* Theo D'Hondt (PC Chair 2011)
* Richard P. Gabriel (Member at Large 2007-2013)
* Jeremy Gibbons (SIGPLAN 2012-2015)
* Roberto Ierusalimschy (PC Chair 2016)
* James Noble (PC Chair 2009)
* Manuel Serrano (PC Chair 2015)
* Peter Thiemann (SIGPLAN 2015-2018)
* Dave Thomas (Member at Large 2007-2013)
* Alessandro Warth (PC Chair 2012)
* Roel Wuyts (PC Chair 2005)

Commit message:

update dls info with most notable paper award and actual date of symposium in 2021

Conferences/DLS.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "Dynamic Languages Symposium (DLS) "
---
The Dynamic Languages Symposium (DLS) is a forum for discussion of
dynamic languages, their implementation and application. While mature
dynamic languages including Smalltalk, Lisp, Scheme, Self, Prolog, and
APL continue to grow and inspire new converts, a new generation of
dynamic scripting languages such as JavaScript, Python, Ruby, PHP, Tcl,
Lua, and Clojure are successful in a wide range of applications. DLS
provides a place for researchers and practitioners to come together and
share their knowledge, experience, and ideas for future research and
development.

DLS 2021
--------

-   Chicago, Illinois, United States, Oct 19, 2021
-   Co-located with SPLASH 2021
-   PC chair: Arjun Guha (Northeastern University)
-   [https://conf.researchr.org/home/dls-2021](https://conf.researchr.org/home/dls-2021)

Awards
------

-   Most Notable Paper Award 2021 for 2011
    -   Recipients: Maxime Chevalier-Boisvert, Erick Lavoie, Marc Feeley, Bruno Dufour
    -   Title: Bootstrapping a Self-Hosted Research Virtual Machine for JavaScript: An Experience Report
    -   Conference: DLS 2011
    -   Paper:
        [https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2047849.2047858](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2047849.2047858)
    -   Citation: The 2011 DLS paper "Bootstrapping a Self-Hosted Research
        Virtual Machine for JavaScript: An Experience Report" is a great
        overview and source of ideas for virtual machine development. It
        represents a comprehensive guide to design choices to make in the space
        and for that it is still notable today.

-   Most Notable Paper Award 2020 for 2010
    -   Recipients: Tom Van Cutsem and Mark S. Miller
    -   Title: Design Principles for Robust Object-oriented Intercession APIs
    -   Conference: DLS 2010
    -   Paper:
        [https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/1869631.1869638](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/1869631.1869638)
    -   Citation: The 2010 DLS paper "Proxies: Design Principles for Robust
        Object-oriented Intercession APIs" is a prime example of the
        object-capability model. In short order, it managed to bridge the gap
        from research to become an integral part of an important language today.

-   Most Notable Paper Award 2019 for 2009
    -   Recipients: Alexander Yermolovich, Christian Wimmer, and Michael Franz
    -   Title: Optimization of Dynamic Languages Using Hierarchical Layering of Virtual Machines
    -   Conference: DLS 2009
    -   Paper:
        [https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1408688](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1408688)
    -   Citation: This 2009 DLS paper is an important early paper in the area of
        meta virtual machines. It showed a simple and effective approach to VM
        construction that was simultaneously explored by multiple research
        groups at the time and which has since found further applications.

-   Most Notable Paper Award 2018 for 2008
    -   Recipients: Jeremy G. Siek and Manish Vachharajani
    -   Title: Gradual Typing With Unification-based Inference
    -   Conference: DLS 2008
    -   Paper:
        [https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=1408681.1408688](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=1408681.1408688)
    -   Citation: The 2008 DLS paper "Gradual Typing With
        Unification-based Inference" showed that one can increase the
        static guarantees made in a program through an ingenious
        combination of gradual typing and unification-base type
        inference. The ideas underlying this paper have found their way
        into the design of many modern programming languages, and have
        had a strong impact on the research community.

-   Most Notable Paper Award 2017 for 2007
    -   Recipients: Stijn Mostinckx, Tom Van Cutsem, Stijn Timbermont, and Éric Tanter
    -   Title: Mirages--Behavioral Intercession in a Mirror-based Architecture
    -   Conference: DLS 2007
    -   Paper:
        [http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1297095](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1297095)
    -   Citation: The 2007 DLS paper "Mirages: Behavioral Intercession
        in a Mirror-based Architecture" combined the ideas of explicit
        mirrors for reflective introspection and modification with
        implicit mirrors for behavioral intercession. The work in this
        paper influenced and inspired the design of proxies in the
        JavaScript language, where it now has applications in areas
        such as security, testing, and virtualization of the DOM.

-   Most Notable Paper Award 2016 for 2006
    -   Recipients: Armin Rigo and Samuele Pedroni
    -   Title: PyPy's Approach to Virtual Machine Construction
    -   Conference: DLS 2006
    -   Paper:
        [http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1176753](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1176753)
    -   Citation: The 2006 DLS paper "PyPy's Approach to Virtual Machine
        Construction" introduced the PyPy Python interpreter and the
        RPython framework. Both are still highly relevant in various
        areas to this day and will continue to be influential for many
        years, thus demonstrating highly impressive long-term vision
        and impact. The paper laid the theoretical and practical
        foundations of constructing a virtual machine from a
        high-level description and was consequently built upon by
        numerous follow-up publications. The software, which continues
        to be developed by a large and active open source community,
        proved extensively usable in multiple academic and industrial
        contexts.

-   Most Notable Paper Award 2015 for 2005
    -   Recipients: Pascal Costanza and Robert Hirschfeld
    -   Title: Language Constructs for Context-oriented Programming--An Overview of ContextL
    -   Conference: DLS 2005
    -   Paper:
        [http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1146842](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1146842)
    -   Citation: The 2005 DLS paper "Language Constructs for
        Context-oriented Programming: An Overview of ContextL"
        introduced a framework that enables programmers to modify the
        behavior of a program based on the context in which it is
        used, without requiring changes to the original program. This
        paper triggered a cascade of research on Context-oriented
        Programming and spawned a community with its own international
        workshop series, which is still going strong today.

Past Events
-----------

- DLS 2020
    -   ~~Chicago, Illinois, USA~~ Everywhere, Nov 18, 2020
    -   Co-located with SPLASH 2020
    -   PC chair: Matthew Flatt
    -   Invited speaker: Vanessa Freudenberg
    -   [https://conf.researchr.org/home/dls-2020](https://conf.researchr.org/home/dls-2020)
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-20/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-20/)

- DLS 2019
    -   Athens, Greece, October 22, 2019
    -   Co-located with SPLASH 2019
    -   PC chair: Stefan Marr (University of Kent)
    -   Invited speaker: Saman P. Amarasinghe
    -   [https://conf.researchr.org/home/dls-2019](https://conf.researchr.org/home/dls-2019)
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-19/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-19/)

- DLS 2018
    -   Boston, Massachusetts, USA, November 6, 2018
    -   Co-located with SPLASH 2018
    -   PC chair: Tim Felgentreff
    -   Invited speaker: Saman P. Amarasinghe
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-18/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-18/)

-   DLS 2017
    -   Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, October 24, 2017
    -   Co-located with SPLASH 2017
    -   PC chair: Davide Ancona
    -   Invited speaker: Filip Pizlo
    -   [http://2017.splashcon.org/track/dls-2017-DLS-2017](http://2017.splashcon.org/track/dls-2017-DLS-2017)
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-17/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-17/)

-   DLS 2016
    -   Amsterdam, The Netherlands, November 1, 2016
    -   Co-located with SPLASH 2016
    -   PC chair: Roberto Ierusalimschy
	-   Invited speaker: Ross McIlroy
    -   [http://2016.splashcon.org/track/dls-2016-papers](http://2016.splashcon.org/track/dls-2016-papers)
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-16/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-16/)

-   DLS 2015
    -   Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA, October 27, 2015
    -   Co-located with SPLASH 2015
    -   PC chair: Manuel Serrano
    -   Invited speaker: Eelco Visser
    -   [http://2015.splashcon.org/track/dls2015](http://2015.splashcon.org/track/dls2015)
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-15/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-15/)

-   DLS 2014
    -   Portland, Oregon, USA, 2014
    -   Co-located with SPLASH 2014
    -   PC chair: Laurence Tratt
    -   Invited speaker: Stefan Udo Hanenberg
    -   [http://2014.splashcon.org/track/dls14-papers](http://2014.splashcon.org/track/dls14-papers)
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-14/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-14/)

-   DLS 2013
    -   Indianapolis, Indiana, USA, October 28, 2013
    -   Co-located with SPLASH 2013
    -   PC chair: Carl Friedrich Bolz
    -   Invited speaker: Mario Wolczko
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-13/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-13/)

-   DLS 2012
    -   Tucson, Arizona, USA, October 22, 2012
    -   Co-located with SPLASH 2012
    -   PC chair: Alessandro Warth
    -   Invited speaker: David A. Smith
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-12/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-12/)

-   DLS 2011
    -   Portland, Oregon, USA, October 24, 2011
    -   Co-located with SPLASH 2011
    -   PC chair: Theo D'Hondt
    -   Invited speakers: Gilad Bracha and David Ungar
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-11/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-11/)

-   DLS 2010
    -   Reno, Nevada, USA, October 18, 2010
    -   Co-located with SPLASH 2010
    -   PC chair: William D. Clinger
    -   Invited speaker: Allen Wirfs-Brock
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-10/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-10/)

-   DLS 2009
    -   Disney's Contemporary Resort
    -   Orlando, Florida, USA, October 26, 2009
    -   Co-located with OOPSLA 2009
    -   PC chair: James Noble
    -   Invited speaker: Jan Vitek
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-09/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-09/)

-   DLS 2008
    -   Paphos, Cyprus, July 8, 2008
    -   Co-located with ECOOP 2008
    -   PC chair: Johan Brichau
    -   Invited speakers: Rich Hickey, Laurence Tratt, and Dan Ingalls
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-08/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-08/)

-   DLS 2007
    -   Montreal, Quebec, Canada, October 22, 2007
    -   Co-located with OOPSLA 2007
    -   PC chairs: Pascal Costanza and Robert Hirschfeld
    -   Invited speakers: Mark S. Miller and Jim Hugunin
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-07/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-07/)

-   DLS 2006
    -   Portland, Oregon, USA, October 23, 2006
    -   Co-located with OOPSLA 2006
    -   PC chair: Robert Hirschfeld
    -   Invited speakers: Ian Piumarta, Audrey Tang, and Avi Bryant
    -   [http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-06/](http://www.dynamic-languages-symposium.org/dls-06/)

-   DLS 2005
    -   San Diego, California, USA, October 18, 2005
    -   Co-located with OOPSLA 2005
    -   PC chair: Roel Wuyts
    -   Invited speakers: Gerald Sussman, Gilad Bracha, Jans Aasman, and
        Brian Foote
    -   [http://decomp.ulb.ac.be/events/dls05/](http://decomp.ulb.ac.be/events/dls05/)

Steering Committee Members
--------------------------

### Present

* Chair: Tim Felgentreff, Oracle Labs, Germany (SC Chair 2018-2021, PC Chair 2018)
* Davide Ancona, Universit&agrave; degli studi di Genova, Italy (PC Chair 2017)
* Carl Friedrich Bolz-Tereick, Heinrich-Heine-Universit&auml;t D&uuml;sseldorf, Germany (Past SC Chair 2018-2021, SC Chair 2015-2018, PC Chair 2013)
* Robert Hirschfeld, Hasso Plattner Institute and University of Potsdam, Germany (Member at Large 2018-2020, Past SC Chair 2015-2018, SC Chair 2007-2015, PC Chair 2007, PC Chair 2006)
* Stefan Marr, University of Kent, UK (PC Chair 2019)
* Benjamin C. Pierce, University of Pennsylvania, USA (SIGPLAN 2018-2021)
* Laurence Tratt, King's College London, UK (Emeritus Member 2018-2020, Emeritus Member 2016-2018, PC Chair 2014)

### Past

* Johan Brichau (PC Chair 2008)
* William D. Clinger (PC Chair 2010)
* Pascal Costanza (SC Chair 2007-2013, PC Chair 2007)
* Theo D'Hondt (PC Chair 2011)
* Richard P. Gabriel (Member at Large 2007-2013)
* Jeremy Gibbons (SIGPLAN 2012-2015)
* Roberto Ierusalimschy (PC Chair 2016)
* James Noble (PC Chair 2009)
* Manuel Serrano (PC Chair 2015)
* Peter Thiemann (SIGPLAN 2015-2018)
* Dave Thomas (Member at Large 2007-2013)
* Alessandro Warth (PC Chair 2012)
* Roel Wuyts (PC Chair 2005)
