Conferences/POPL.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "Principles of Programming Languages (POPL)"
---
Principles of Programming Languages symposium addresses fundamental
principles and important innovations in the design, definition,
analysis, and implementation of programming languages, programming
systems, and programming interfaces. POPL is in-cooperation with
[SIGACT](http://www.acm.org/sigact) and [SIGLOG](http://www.acm.org/siglog).


**POPL Fast Facts**

> [POPL 2018 Web Page](http://popl18.sigplan.org)  
> Location: Los Angeles, CA  
> General Chair: [Ranjit Jhala](http://ranjitjhala.github.io) (University of California, San Diego)  
> Program Chair: [Andrew Myers](http://www.cs.cornell.edu/andru/) (Cornell University)  
> Dates: January 8-13, 2018  

**Most Influential POPL Paper Award**

Each year a "Most Influential" POPL paper is chosen and an
presentation is made at POPL. More details about this award and
past winning papers can be found [here](/Awards/Conferences/). SIGPLAN
also makes several other awards including an "Outstanding
Dissertation Award." Please consider making a nomination for one of
these awards.  More details about the SIGPLAN awards can be found
[here](/Awards/).

**POPL Steering Committee**

The POPL Steering Committee is constituted by the following members:  

-   current SIGPLAN Chair and Vice Chair,
-   three members at large who sit for three years
-   Industrial Relation Chair who sits for three years and is chosen among the three members at large
-   three most recent POPL General Chairs, and
-   three most recent POPL Program Chairs.

The General Chair and Program Committee Chair of the next edition of POPL are invited to join the Steering Committee as soon as they are chosen.

The current POPL steering committee is:

{% include committee.liquid name="POPL Steering Committee" %}

**Principles of POPL**
 
  * [Principles of POPL](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=2502508.2502517),
    ACM SIGPLAN Notices - Supplemental issue,
    Volume 48 Issue 4S, April 2013, pp 12-16.

----

**Web Pages of Previous Conferences**

> [POPL 2017](http://conf.researchr.org/home/POPL-2017) (Paris, France)  
> [POPL 2016](http://conf.researchr.org/home/POPL-2016) (St Petersburg, FL)  
> [POPL 2015](http://popl.mpi-sws.org/2015/) (Mumbai, India)  
> [POPL 2014](http://popl.mpi-sws.org/2014/) (San Diego, CA)  
> [POPL 2013](http://popl.mpi-sws.org/2013/) (Rome, Italy)  
> [POPL 2012](http://www.cse.psu.edu/popl/12/) (Philadelphia, PA)  
> [POPL 2011](http://www.cse.psu.edu/popl/11/) (Austin, TX)  
> [POPL 2010](http://www.cse.psu.edu/popl/10/) (Madrid, Spain)  
> [POPL 2009](http://www.cs.ucsd.edu/popl/09/) (Savannah, Georgia)  
> [POPL 2008](http://www.cs.ucsd.edu/popl/08/) (San Francisco, CA)  
> [POPL 2007](http://www.cs.ucsd.edu/popl/07/) (Nice, France)  
> [POPL 2006](http://www.cs.princeton.edu/~dpw/popl/06/) (Charleston, SC)  
> [POPL 2005](http://www.cs.princeton.edu/~dpw/popl/05/) (Long Beach, CA)  
> [POPL 2004](http://cristal.inria.fr/POPL2004/) (Venice, Italy)  
> [POPL 2003](http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/~aiken/popl03/) (New Orleans, LA)  
> [POPL 2002](http://www.cse.ogi.edu/PacSoft/conf/popl/) (Portland, OR)  
> [POPL 2001](http://www.daimi.au.dk/~popl01/) (London, UK)  
> [POPL 2000](http://www.research.ibm.com/people/w/wegman/POPL.html) (Boston, MA)  
> [POPL 1999](http://www.cs.princeton.edu/~appel/popl99/) (San Antonio, TX)  
> [POPL 1998](http://cm.bell-labs.com/cm/cs/who/dbm/POPL98/index.html) (San Diego, CA)  
> [POPL 1997](http://www.cs.umd.edu/~pugh/popl97/) (Paris, France)  
> [POPL 1996](ftp://parcftp.xerox.com/pub/popl96/popl96.html) (St. Petersburg Beach, FL)  
> [POPL 1995](http://www.cs.wustl.edu/~cytron/popl95.html) (San Francisco, CA)

Commit message:

Added link to the latest version of the Principles of POPL Added link to POPL 2018

Conferences/POPL.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "Principles of Programming Languages (POPL)"
---
Principles of Programming Languages symposium addresses fundamental
principles and important innovations in the design, definition,
analysis, and implementation of programming languages, programming
systems, and programming interfaces. POPL is in-cooperation with
[SIGACT](http://www.acm.org/sigact) and [SIGLOG](http://www.acm.org/siglog).


**POPL Fast Facts**

> [POPL 2018 Web Page](http://popl18.sigplan.org)  
> Location: Los Angeles, CA  
> General Chair: [Ranjit Jhala](http://ranjitjhala.github.io) (University of California, San Diego)  
> Program Chair: [Andrew Myers](http://www.cs.cornell.edu/andru/) (Cornell University)  
> Dates: January 8-13, 2018  

**Most Influential POPL Paper Award**

Each year a "Most Influential" POPL paper is chosen and an
presentation is made at POPL. More details about this award and
past winning papers can be found [here](/Awards/Conferences/). SIGPLAN
also makes several other awards including an "Outstanding
Dissertation Award." Please consider making a nomination for one of
these awards.  More details about the SIGPLAN awards can be found
[here](/Awards/).

**POPL Steering Committee**

The POPL Steering Committee is constituted by the following members:  

-   current SIGPLAN Chair and Vice Chair,
-   three members at large who sit for three years
-   Industrial Relation Chair who sits for three years and is chosen among the three members at large
-   three most recent POPL General Chairs, and
-   three most recent POPL Program Chairs.

The General Chair and Program Committee Chair of the next edition of POPL are invited to join the Steering Committee as soon as they are chosen.

The current POPL steering committee is:

{% include committee.liquid name="POPL Steering Committee" %}

**Principles of POPL**
 
  * Up-to-date organizational and reviewing policies of POPL are exposed
     in [Principles of POPL](/Conferences/POPL/Principles/).
     An outdated version is also available in the ACM digital library,
     [ACM SIGPLAN Notices - Supplemental issue, Volume 48 Issue 4S, April 2013,
     pp 12-16]((http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=2502508.2502517).


----

**Web Pages of Previous Conferences**


> [POPL 2018](http://conf.researchr.org/home/POPL-2018) (Los Angeles, CA)
> [POPL 2017](http://conf.researchr.org/home/POPL-2017) (Paris, France)  
> [POPL 2016](http://conf.researchr.org/home/POPL-2016) (St Petersburg, FL)  
> [POPL 2015](http://popl.mpi-sws.org/2015/) (Mumbai, India)  
> [POPL 2014](http://popl.mpi-sws.org/2014/) (San Diego, CA)  
> [POPL 2013](http://popl.mpi-sws.org/2013/) (Rome, Italy)  
> [POPL 2012](http://www.cse.psu.edu/popl/12/) (Philadelphia, PA)  
> [POPL 2011](http://www.cse.psu.edu/popl/11/) (Austin, TX)  
> [POPL 2010](http://www.cse.psu.edu/popl/10/) (Madrid, Spain)  
> [POPL 2009](http://www.cs.ucsd.edu/popl/09/) (Savannah, Georgia)  
> [POPL 2008](http://www.cs.ucsd.edu/popl/08/) (San Francisco, CA)  
> [POPL 2007](http://www.cs.ucsd.edu/popl/07/) (Nice, France)  
> [POPL 2006](http://www.cs.princeton.edu/~dpw/popl/06/) (Charleston, SC)  
> [POPL 2005](http://www.cs.princeton.edu/~dpw/popl/05/) (Long Beach, CA)  
> [POPL 2004](http://cristal.inria.fr/POPL2004/) (Venice, Italy)  
> [POPL 2003](http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/~aiken/popl03/) (New Orleans, LA)  
> [POPL 2002](http://www.cse.ogi.edu/PacSoft/conf/popl/) (Portland, OR)  
> [POPL 2001](http://www.daimi.au.dk/~popl01/) (London, UK)  
> [POPL 2000](http://www.research.ibm.com/people/w/wegman/POPL.html) (Boston, MA)  
> [POPL 1999](http://www.cs.princeton.edu/~appel/popl99/) (San Antonio, TX)  
> [POPL 1998](http://cm.bell-labs.com/cm/cs/who/dbm/POPL98/index.html) (San Diego, CA)  
> [POPL 1997](http://www.cs.umd.edu/~pugh/popl97/) (Paris, France)  
> [POPL 1996](ftp://parcftp.xerox.com/pub/popl96/popl96.html) (St. Petersburg Beach, FL)  
> [POPL 1995](http://www.cs.wustl.edu/~cytron/popl95.html) (San Francisco, CA)
