Conferences/PPOPP.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "Principles and Practice of Parallel Programming (PPoPP)"
---
The PPoPP Symposia is the forum for leading papers on the principles
and foundations of parallel programming, tools and techniques for
parallel programming, and experiences in using parallel programming to
solve applications problems.

**Co-located Events**

- HPCA: [The IEEE International Symposium on High Performance Computing Architecture](http://hpcaconf.org)
- CGO: [International Symposium on Code Generation and Optimization](http://cgo.org)

**Steering Committee**

The current PPoPP Steering Committee is:

{% include committee.liquid name="PPOPP Steering Committee" %}

**Web Pages of Previous Conferences**

* [PPoPP 2025](http://ppopp25.sigplan.org) (Las Vegas, NV)
* [PPoPP 2024](http://ppopp24.sigplan.org) (Edinburgh, UK)
* [PPoPP 2023](http://ppopp23.sigplan.org) (Montreal, Canada)
* [PPoPP 2022](http://ppopp22.sigplan.org) (Seoul, South Korea)
* [PPoPP 2021](http://ppopp21.sigplan.org) (virtual)
* [PPoPP 2020](http://ppopp20.sigplan.org) (San Diego, CA)
* [PPoPP 2019](http://ppopp19.sigplan.org) (Washington, DC)
* [PPoPP 2018](http://ppopp18.sigplan.org) (Vienna, Austria)
* [PPoPP 2017](http://ppopp17.sigplan.org) (Austin, TX)
* [PPoPP 2016](http://conf.researchr.org/home/ppopp-2016) (Barcelona, Spain)
* [PPoPP 2015](http://ppopp15.soe.ucsc.edu/) (San Francisco, CA)
* [PPoPP 2014](https://sites.google.com/site/ppopp2014/) (Orlando, FL)
* [PPoPP 2013](http://ppopp2013.ics.uci.edu) (Shenzhen, China)
* PPoPP 2012 (New Orleans, LA)
* [PPoPP 2011](http://ppopp11.ac.uma.es/tiki-index.php) (San Antonio, TX)
* [PPoPP 2010](http://polaris.cs.uiuc.edu/ppopp10/) (Bangalore, India)
* [PPoPP 2009](http://ppopp09.rice.edu/) (Raleigh, NC)
* [PPoPP 2008](http://research.ihost.com/ppopp08/) (Salt Lake City, UT)
* [PPoPP 2007](http://ftg.lbl.gov/ppopp07/) (San Jose, CA)
* [PPoPP 2006](http://dynamo.ecn.purdue.edu/~smidkiff/ppopp/) (Manhattan, NY)
* [PPoPP 2005](http://www.cs.cornell.edu/Conferences/PPoPP05/) (Chicago, IL)
* [PPoPP 2003](http://ppopp.lcs.mit.edu/) (San Diego, CA)
* [PPoPP 2001](http://www.lsc.nd.edu/ppopp/) (Snowbird, UT)
* [PPoPP 1999](http://csag.ucsd.edu/ppopp/) (Atlanta, GA)

Commit message:

added a link to PPOPP charter

Conferences/PPOPP.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "Principles and Practice of Parallel Programming (PPoPP)"
---
The PPoPP Symposia is the forum for leading papers on the principles
and foundations of parallel programming, tools and techniques for
parallel programming, and experiences in using parallel programming to
solve applications problems. The conference charter is [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1j9CWcYvLB3vktYMxRXY-rYRYXwIVaGGWZlewLoknoNY/edit?usp=sharing).

**Co-located Events**

- HPCA: [The IEEE International Symposium on High Performance Computing Architecture](http://hpcaconf.org)
- CGO: [International Symposium on Code Generation and Optimization](http://cgo.org)

**Steering Committee**

The current PPoPP Steering Committee is:

{% include committee.liquid name="PPOPP Steering Committee" %}

**Web Pages of Previous Conferences**

* [PPoPP 2025](http://ppopp25.sigplan.org) (Las Vegas, NV)
* [PPoPP 2024](http://ppopp24.sigplan.org) (Edinburgh, UK)
* [PPoPP 2023](http://ppopp23.sigplan.org) (Montreal, Canada)
* [PPoPP 2022](http://ppopp22.sigplan.org) (Seoul, South Korea)
* [PPoPP 2021](http://ppopp21.sigplan.org) (virtual)
* [PPoPP 2020](http://ppopp20.sigplan.org) (San Diego, CA)
* [PPoPP 2019](http://ppopp19.sigplan.org) (Washington, DC)
* [PPoPP 2018](http://ppopp18.sigplan.org) (Vienna, Austria)
* [PPoPP 2017](http://ppopp17.sigplan.org) (Austin, TX)
* [PPoPP 2016](http://conf.researchr.org/home/ppopp-2016) (Barcelona, Spain)
* [PPoPP 2015](http://ppopp15.soe.ucsc.edu/) (San Francisco, CA)
* [PPoPP 2014](https://sites.google.com/site/ppopp2014/) (Orlando, FL)
* [PPoPP 2013](http://ppopp2013.ics.uci.edu) (Shenzhen, China)
* PPoPP 2012 (New Orleans, LA)
* [PPoPP 2011](http://ppopp11.ac.uma.es/tiki-index.php) (San Antonio, TX)
* [PPoPP 2010](http://polaris.cs.uiuc.edu/ppopp10/) (Bangalore, India)
* [PPoPP 2009](http://ppopp09.rice.edu/) (Raleigh, NC)
* [PPoPP 2008](http://research.ihost.com/ppopp08/) (Salt Lake City, UT)
* [PPoPP 2007](http://ftg.lbl.gov/ppopp07/) (San Jose, CA)
* [PPoPP 2006](http://dynamo.ecn.purdue.edu/~smidkiff/ppopp/) (Manhattan, NY)
* [PPoPP 2005](http://www.cs.cornell.edu/Conferences/PPoPP05/) (Chicago, IL)
* [PPoPP 2003](http://ppopp.lcs.mit.edu/) (San Diego, CA)
* [PPoPP 2001](http://www.lsc.nd.edu/ppopp/) (Snowbird, UT)
* [PPoPP 1999](http://csag.ucsd.edu/ppopp/) (Atlanta, GA)
