---
layout: default
title: "2010: Gordon D. Plotkin"
---
> **Citation**
> 
> "Professor Gordon D. Plotkin has made fundamental advances in
> almost every area of the theory of programming languages. His
> contributions have helped to establish the mathematical foundations
> on which the scientific study of programming languages are based.
> His 1975 paper "Call-by-name, Call-by-value, and the &#955;-calculus"
> exposed the relationship between the reduction semantics of the
> &#955;-calculus and its operational semantics, as defined by Landin's
> SECD machine. In the process, he defined what it meant for a
> calculus and a semantics to correspond: this launched the study of
> operational semantics as it is now understood. He invented
> Structural Operational Semantics as a technique for specifying the
> semantics of a wide range of programming languages, concurrent as
> well as sequential; this form of semantics is now one of the basic
> working tools of researchers developing new programming languages
> and type systems.
> 
> Plotkin's contributions to the development of the mathematical
> theory of domains, and its applications to the denotational
> semantics of programming languages, have been of fundamental
> importance: they include his powerdomain construction, systematic
> development of the general theory of the solution of recursive
> domain equations, and his work on PCF and the full abstraction
> problem.
> 
> Plotkin's work with Glynn Winskel on event structures is the basis
> for reasoning about distributed systems, process algebras, and
> reactive systems. Event structures have been enormously influential
> in the development of models of concurrency. He has also
> investigated the logical foundations of computer security,
> including logics for specifying authorization policies for computer
> systems. Plotkin continues to make bold and deep contributions, for
> example, in his current work on the algebraic theory of effects,
> and on languages and calculi for biochemical modelling. Taken
> together, Gordon Plotkin's contributions over the past four decades
> exhibit a range and depth unmatched in the field."

[Link to Recipient](http://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/gdp/)
