Resources/Author.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "Author Information"
---

## `acmart` Format

<!-- (BCP) Lots of stuff out of date here!  I propose to just delete it and tell people to look at the submission instructions for each conference. -->

<!-- (AF) Agreed, specially since there is no uniformity across conferences. -->

<!-- (DB) Either delete, or ask all conferences to simply point to here.
          The non-uniformity problem got eliminated over the last three years.
          All SIGPLAN conferences now have to use the same style (and font size). -->

ACM commissioned the construction of a [Master Article
Template](http://www.acm.org/publications/proceedings-template) that
consolidates all previous ACM journal and proceedings formats
(including SIGPLAN's legacy [`sigplanconf` format](/Resources/LaTeXClassFile)) and
is designed to enable a uniform production workflow for authors and
publishers.  The `acmart` format includes a number of sub-formats, two
of which are relevant to SIGPLAN authors:

 * `acmsmall` sub-format: a one-column format used by papers published
   as an issue of [PACM on Programming Languages
   (PACMPL)](http://pacmpl.acm.org)

 * `sigplan` sub-format: a two-column format used by papers published
   as traditional SIGPLAN proceedings

ACM provides [technical
support](http://www.acm.org/publications/proceedings-template#h-technical-support)
for authors working with the `acmart` format.  General comments and
problems about the `acmart` format may be communicated through the
SIGPLAN [Information
Director](mailto:infodir_sigplan@acm.org?subject=ACM%20acmart%20format).

### LaTeX class, bibliography style, and template files

For LaTeX users, the [`acmart` package](https://www.acm.org/binaries/content/assets/publications/consolidated-tex-template/acmart-master.zip) includes the following essential files for an
author:

 * class file (`acmart.cls`)
 * bibliography style file (`ACM-Reference-Format.bst`)

The `acmart` format is available from ACM's [Master Article
Template](http://www.acm.org/publications/proceedings-template) page
and from [CTAN](http://ctan.org/pkg/acmart) (and is
distributed with most popular TeX distributions).
The [package documentation](http://mirrors.ctan.org/macros/latex/contrib/acmart/acmart.pdf)
provides a detailed description of all features.
The `acmart` format is maintained in a
[GitHub repository](https://github.com/borisveytsman/acmart).

Please use the following LaTeX commands:
* PACMPL journal issues: `\documentclass[sigplan,screen]{acmart}`;
  PACMPL requires author-year citation style: `\citestyle{acmauthoryear}`
* SIGPLAN proceedings: `\documentclass[acmsmall,screen]{acmart}`

The `review` option is strongly encouraged, but not required, for
submissions. (The `review` option will add line numbers, which make it
easier for reviewers to reference specific parts of the paper in their
comments, but should have absolutely no other effect on the
typesetting.)

The `screen` option adds colors to hyperlinks and cross references.

### Word templates

For Word users, the `acmart` format is available from ACM's [Master
Article
Template](http://www.acm.org/publications/proceedings-template) page.

- - -

{% comment %}

## SIGPLAN Proceedings Format

The [SIGPLAN Proceedings Format](/Resources/ProceedingsFormat) page
summarizes the formatting guidelines for ACM SIGPLAN Proceedings.  The
goal is to ensure that proceedings have a consistent, high-quality
appearance.

{% endcomment %}

## Republication Policy

Please review SIGPLAN's
[republication policy](/Resources/Policies/Republication).

## ACM Author Rights

* [ACM Information for Authors: Author Rights & FAQs](http://authors.acm.org/main.html)
* [ACM Author Rights & Publishing Policy](http://www.acm.org/publications/policies/copyright_policy) 
* [New Options for ACM Authors to Manage Rights and Permissions](http://www.acm.org/news/featured/author-rights-management)
* [Using/Including 3rd Party Material & Permissions](http://www.acm.org/publications/third-party-material)

## Writing

If you would like some advice on how to write submissions, here are
some suggestions by

-   Derek Dreyer:
    [How to Write Papers So People Can Read Them](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L_6xoMjFr70)
-   Simon Peyton Jones:
    [How to write a good research paper, give a good research talk, and write a good grant proposal](http://research.microsoft.com/~simonpj/papers/giving-a-talk/giving-a-talk.htm)
-   Donald E. Knuth, Tracy Larrabee and Paul M. Roberts:
    [Mathematical Writing](http://tex.loria.fr/typographie/mathwriting.pdf)
-   Mary-Claire van Leunen and Richard Lipton:
    [How to Have Your Abstract Rejected](/Resources/Advice/VanLeunen-Lipton)
-   William Pugh:
    [Advice to Authors of Extended Abstracts](/Resources/Advice/Pugh)
-   Mark Wegman:
    [What it's like to be a POPL referee; or how to write an extended abstract so that it is more likely to be accepted](http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/14947.14955)
-   P. R. Halmos:
    [How to Write Mathematics](http://www.stat.rice.edu/~riedi/Halmos.html)
-   Joel E. Cohen:
    [To A Young Scientist](/Resources/Advice/Cohen)

## Additional Support

Are you a student needing additional support to present your paper
at the conference? The SIGPLAN
**[Professional Activities Committee (PAC)](/PAC)** can help you.

Commit message:

Word is not supported (ACM mentions only an 'interim' template

Resources/Author.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "Author Information"
---

## `acmart` Format

<!-- (BCP) Lots of stuff out of date here!  I propose to just delete it and tell people to look at the submission instructions for each conference. -->

<!-- (AF) Agreed, specially since there is no uniformity across conferences. -->

<!-- (DB) Either delete, or ask all conferences to simply point to here.
          The non-uniformity problem got eliminated over the last three years.
          All SIGPLAN conferences now have to use the same style (and font size). -->

ACM commissioned the construction of a [Master Article
Template](http://www.acm.org/publications/proceedings-template) that
consolidates all previous ACM journal and proceedings formats
(including SIGPLAN's legacy [`sigplanconf` format](/Resources/LaTeXClassFile)) and
is designed to enable a uniform production workflow for authors and
publishers.  The `acmart` format includes a number of sub-formats, two
of which are relevant to SIGPLAN authors:

 * `acmsmall` sub-format: a one-column format used by papers published
   as an issue of [PACM on Programming Languages
   (PACMPL)](http://pacmpl.acm.org)

 * `sigplan` sub-format: a two-column format used by papers published
   as traditional SIGPLAN proceedings

ACM provides [technical
support](http://www.acm.org/publications/proceedings-template#h-technical-support)
for authors working with the `acmart` format.  General comments and
problems about the `acmart` format may be communicated through the
SIGPLAN [Information
Director](mailto:infodir_sigplan@acm.org?subject=ACM%20acmart%20format).

### LaTeX class, bibliography style, and template files

For LaTeX users, the [`acmart` package](https://www.acm.org/binaries/content/assets/publications/consolidated-tex-template/acmart-master.zip) includes the following essential files for an
author:

 * class file (`acmart.cls`)
 * bibliography style file (`ACM-Reference-Format.bst`)

The `acmart` format is available from ACM's [Master Article
Template](http://www.acm.org/publications/proceedings-template) page
and from [CTAN](http://ctan.org/pkg/acmart) (and is
distributed with most popular TeX distributions).
The [package documentation](http://mirrors.ctan.org/macros/latex/contrib/acmart/acmart.pdf)
provides a detailed description of all features.
The `acmart` format is maintained in a
[GitHub repository](https://github.com/borisveytsman/acmart).

Please use the following LaTeX commands:
* PACMPL journal issues: `\documentclass[sigplan,screen]{acmart}`;
  PACMPL requires author-year citation style: `\citestyle{acmauthoryear}`
* SIGPLAN proceedings: `\documentclass[acmsmall,screen]{acmart}`

The `review` option is strongly encouraged, but not required, for
submissions. (The `review` option will add line numbers, which make it
easier for reviewers to reference specific parts of the paper in their
comments, but should have absolutely no other effect on the
typesetting.)

The `screen` option adds colors to hyperlinks and cross references.

### Microsoft Word

The `acmart` format is not supported by Microsoft Word.

- - -

{% comment %}

## SIGPLAN Proceedings Format

The [SIGPLAN Proceedings Format](/Resources/ProceedingsFormat) page
summarizes the formatting guidelines for ACM SIGPLAN Proceedings.  The
goal is to ensure that proceedings have a consistent, high-quality
appearance.

{% endcomment %}

## Republication Policy

Please review SIGPLAN's
[republication policy](/Resources/Policies/Republication).

## ACM Author Rights

* [ACM Information for Authors: Author Rights & FAQs](http://authors.acm.org/main.html)
* [ACM Author Rights & Publishing Policy](http://www.acm.org/publications/policies/copyright_policy) 
* [New Options for ACM Authors to Manage Rights and Permissions](http://www.acm.org/news/featured/author-rights-management)
* [Using/Including 3rd Party Material & Permissions](http://www.acm.org/publications/third-party-material)

## Writing

If you would like some advice on how to write submissions, here are
some suggestions by

-   Derek Dreyer:
    [How to Write Papers So People Can Read Them](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L_6xoMjFr70)
-   Simon Peyton Jones:
    [How to write a good research paper, give a good research talk, and write a good grant proposal](http://research.microsoft.com/~simonpj/papers/giving-a-talk/giving-a-talk.htm)
-   Donald E. Knuth, Tracy Larrabee and Paul M. Roberts:
    [Mathematical Writing](http://tex.loria.fr/typographie/mathwriting.pdf)
-   Mary-Claire van Leunen and Richard Lipton:
    [How to Have Your Abstract Rejected](/Resources/Advice/VanLeunen-Lipton)
-   William Pugh:
    [Advice to Authors of Extended Abstracts](/Resources/Advice/Pugh)
-   Mark Wegman:
    [What it's like to be a POPL referee; or how to write an extended abstract so that it is more likely to be accepted](http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/14947.14955)
-   P. R. Halmos:
    [How to Write Mathematics](http://www.stat.rice.edu/~riedi/Halmos.html)
-   Joel E. Cohen:
    [To A Young Scientist](/Resources/Advice/Cohen)

## Additional Support

Are you a student needing additional support to present your paper
at the conference? The SIGPLAN
**[Professional Activities Committee (PAC)](/PAC)** can help you.
