Resources/Climate.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "SIGPLAN and Climate Change"
---

Resources:
- [Engaging with Climate Change: Possible Steps for SIGPLAN](http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~bcpierce/papers/sigplan-climate-report.pdf)
- [Carbon Offsets: An Overview for Scientific Societies](http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~bcpierce/papers/carbon-offsets.pdf)
- [ACM's CO2 Footprint Calculator for Conferences](https://co2calculator.acm.org)
- [acm-climate](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/acm-climate)
  mailing list

## Climate Committee

Air travel is a significant source of greenhouse gas emissions, which in
turn are a significant contributor to climate change.  SIGPLAN hosts a
number of annual scientific meetings at various locations throughout the
world.  While such meetings are important for furthering important research,
we would be remiss in not exploring possible mitigations. Accordingly,
SIGPLAN has formed an ad hoc committee to study the climate impact of
conferences and possible steps that SIGPLAN might take in response. The
committee chair is [Benjamin Pierce](http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~bcpierce/);
its other members are [Jens Palsberg](http://web.cs.ucla.edu/~palsberg/) and
[SIGPLAN EC](/ContactUs) members
[Crista Lopes](http://www.ics.uci.edu/~lopes/) and
[Michael Hicks](http://www.cs.umd.edu/~mwh/). An
[interim report](http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~bcpierce/papers/sigplan-climate-report.pdf)
summarizes a number of ideas under consideration and some experiments
currently underway, following intensive discussions within the committee and
with the overall community at town hall meetings.

Anyone interested in participating in discussions about SIGPLAN and climate
change is invited to join the
[acm-climate](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/acm-climate) email
discussion group.

## Current action: Carbon Offsets

One recent major effort has been evaluating the idea of carbon offsets as a
mechanism for reducing the conference's net carbon impact.  A
[report](http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~bcpierce/papers/sigplan-climate-report.pdf)
on what we have learned is available.

Carbon offsets have the potential to reduce SIGPLAN's net carbon impact
while furthering sustainability and developmental goals. They help
fund projects that would not otherwise be economically feasible given
start-up costs or the means of the communities they are
servicing. Ideally, they address the potential trade-off between
reducing carbon emissions and furthering the progress of
less-developed parts of the world.  They are not a long-term solution
to the problem of carbon emissions from scientific conferences, but
they are a useful stopgap, slowing the overall growth of atmospheric
greenhouse gas concentrations while other fossil fuel reduction
strategies are being developed.  An excellent discussion of the pros
and cons of carbon offsets in general and of specific project types
can be found in a [recent
report](https://www.sei-international.org/mediamanager/documents/Publications/Climate/SEI-WP-2016-03-ICAO-aviation-offsets-biofuels.pdf)
from the Stockholm Environmental Institute.

[Atmosfair](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/organisationsform) is a
non-profit originally created as part of a research project by the
German Federal Ministry for the Environment. Its carbon offset
projects are
[registered](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/organisationsform) through
the UN Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) standard and are either
approved by or awaiting approval under the Gold Standard — these are
widely recognized vetting groups.  Projects that atmosfair supports
include:

- [Creating decentralized waste management
  systems](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/biogas_und_biomasse/indonesien)
  in Indonesia, which reduce the amount of methane released into the
  atmosphere.
- [Building biogas plants](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/nepal-biogas)
  in Nepal, which allow the conversion of animal manure into cooking
  gas. This means that people no longer need to use firewood to cook,
  decreasing deforestation and improving indoor air quality.
- [Distributing solar home
  systems](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/athiopien-solarhomesystems) in
  Ethiopia, allowing families to stop using carbon-emitting and
  inefficient kerosene lamps.

Atmosfair has worked with companies and organizations such as
[Cisco](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/unternehmen),
[Dolby](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/unternehmen),
[Merck](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/unternehmen), and
[Greenpeace](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/verwaltung-ngos-politik). Its
web site provides detailed background on its organization, policies,
standards, and projects.

For those that like comparison shopping, we can recommend
[CoolEffect](https://www.cooleffect.org) as another excellent carbon
offset vendor — for example, their project that funds [building
converters from cow manure to
biogas](https://www.cooleffect.org/content/project/community-biogas-program#What-it-does).

Commit message:

Add ACM's carbon offset policy

Resources/Climate.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "SIGPLAN and Climate Change"
---

Useful Links:
- ACM's new (as of 2019) [Carbon Offset Program](https://www.acm.org/special-interest-groups/volunteer-resources/conference-planning/conference-registration#h-carbon-offset-program)
- [ACM's CO2 Footprint Calculator for Conferences](https://co2calculator.acm.org)
- [acm-climate](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/acm-climate)
  mailing list

Resources:
- [Engaging with Climate Change: Possible Steps for SIGPLAN](http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~bcpierce/papers/sigplan-climate-report.pdf)
- [Carbon Offsets: An Overview for Scientific Societies](http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~bcpierce/papers/carbon-offsets.pdf)

## Climate Committee

Air travel is a significant source of greenhouse gas emissions, which in
turn are a significant contributor to climate change.  SIGPLAN hosts a
number of annual scientific meetings at various locations throughout the
world.  While such meetings are important for furthering important research,
we would be remiss in not exploring possible mitigations. Accordingly,
SIGPLAN has formed an ad hoc committee to study the climate impact of
conferences and possible steps that SIGPLAN might take in response. The
committee chair is [Benjamin Pierce](http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~bcpierce/);
its other members are [Jens Palsberg](http://web.cs.ucla.edu/~palsberg/) and
[SIGPLAN EC](/ContactUs) members
[Crista Lopes](http://www.ics.uci.edu/~lopes/) and
[Michael Hicks](http://www.cs.umd.edu/~mwh/). An
[interim report](http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~bcpierce/papers/sigplan-climate-report.pdf)
summarizes a number of ideas under consideration and some experiments
currently underway, following intensive discussions within the committee and
with the overall community at town hall meetings.

Anyone interested in participating in discussions about SIGPLAN and climate
change is invited to join the
[acm-climate](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/acm-climate) email
discussion group.

## Current action: Carbon Offsets

One recent major effort has been evaluating the idea of carbon offsets as a
mechanism for reducing the conference's net carbon impact.  A
[report](http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~bcpierce/papers/sigplan-climate-report.pdf)
on what we have learned is available.

Carbon offsets have the potential to reduce SIGPLAN's net carbon impact
while furthering sustainability and developmental goals. They help
fund projects that would not otherwise be economically feasible given
start-up costs or the means of the communities they are
servicing. Ideally, they address the potential trade-off between
reducing carbon emissions and furthering the progress of
less-developed parts of the world.  They are not a long-term solution
to the problem of carbon emissions from scientific conferences, but
they are a useful stopgap, slowing the overall growth of atmospheric
greenhouse gas concentrations while other fossil fuel reduction
strategies are being developed.  An excellent discussion of the pros
and cons of carbon offsets in general and of specific project types
can be found in a [recent
report](https://www.sei-international.org/mediamanager/documents/Publications/Climate/SEI-WP-2016-03-ICAO-aviation-offsets-biofuels.pdf)
from the Stockholm Environmental Institute.

[Atmosfair](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/organisationsform) is a
non-profit originally created as part of a research project by the
German Federal Ministry for the Environment. Its carbon offset
projects are
[registered](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/organisationsform) through
the UN Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) standard and are either
approved by or awaiting approval under the Gold Standard — these are
widely recognized vetting groups.  Projects that atmosfair supports
include:

- [Creating decentralized waste management
  systems](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/biogas_und_biomasse/indonesien)
  in Indonesia, which reduce the amount of methane released into the
  atmosphere.
- [Building biogas plants](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/nepal-biogas)
  in Nepal, which allow the conversion of animal manure into cooking
  gas. This means that people no longer need to use firewood to cook,
  decreasing deforestation and improving indoor air quality.
- [Distributing solar home
  systems](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/athiopien-solarhomesystems) in
  Ethiopia, allowing families to stop using carbon-emitting and
  inefficient kerosene lamps.

Atmosfair has worked with companies and organizations such as
[Cisco](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/unternehmen),
[Dolby](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/unternehmen),
[Merck](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/unternehmen), and
[Greenpeace](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/verwaltung-ngos-politik). Its
web site provides detailed background on its organization, policies,
standards, and projects.

For those that like comparison shopping, we can recommend
[CoolEffect](https://www.cooleffect.org) as another excellent carbon
offset vendor — for example, their project that funds [building
converters from cow manure to
biogas](https://www.cooleffect.org/content/project/community-biogas-program#What-it-does).
