Resources/LaTeXClassFile.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "SIGPLAN LaTeX Class File"
---

SIGPLAN commissioned the construction of a LaTeX class file for
SIGPLAN conference papers.  The current version of the LaTeX class
file is available on the [Author Information](/Resources/Author) page.
This page archives older versions of the LaTeX class file for
historical reference.

* version 3.6 (released 20161220)
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/3.6/sigplanconf.cls)
    - [`sigplanconf-template.tex`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/3.6/sigplanconf-template.tex)
    - [`sigplanconf-guide.pdf`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/3.6/sigplanconf-guide.pdf)
* version 3.2 (released 20151203)
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/3.2/sigplanconf.cls)
    - [`sigplanconf-template.tex`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/3.2/sigplanconf-template.tex)
    - [`sigplanconf-guide.pdf`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/3.2/sigplanconf-guide.pdf)
* version 2.8
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/2.8/sigplanconf.cls)
    - [`sigplanconf-template.tex`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/2.8/sigplanconf-template.tex)
    - [`sigplanconf-guide.pdf`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/2.8/sigplanconf-guide.pdf)
* version 2.7
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/2.7/sigplanconf.cls)
    - [`sigplanconf-template.tex`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/2.7/sigplanconf-template.tex)
* version 2.6
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/2.6/sigplanconf.cls)
    - [`sigplanconf-template.tex`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/2.6/sigplanconf-template.tex)
* version 2.5
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/2.5/sigplanconf.cls)
* version 2.4
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/2.4/sigplanconf.cls)
* version 2.3
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/2.3/sigplanconf.cls)
* version 1.9
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/1.9/sigplanconf.cls)
* version 1.8
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/1.8/sigplanconf.cls)
* version 1.5
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/1.5/sigplanconf.cls)
* version 1.4
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/1.4/sigplanconf.cls)
* version 1.2
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/1.2/sigplanconf.cls)
    - [`sigplanconf-guide.pdf`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/1.2/sigplanconf-guide.pdf)
* version 1.0
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/1.0/sigplanconf.cls)

Commit message:

Remove legacy `sigplanproc` class information from Resources/Author

Resources/LaTeXClassFile.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "SIGPLAN LaTeX Class File"
---

**NOTE:** The `sigplanconf` format was used for SIGPLAN events
occuring before August 2017.  It has been superceded by the
[`acmart` format](/Resources/Author).  This page archives older
versions of the LaTeX class file for historical reference only.

* version 3.6 (released 20161220)
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/3.6/sigplanconf.cls)
    - [`sigplanconf-template.tex`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/3.6/sigplanconf-template.tex)
    - [`sigplanconf-guide.pdf`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/3.6/sigplanconf-guide.pdf)
* version 3.2 (released 20151203)
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/3.2/sigplanconf.cls)
    - [`sigplanconf-template.tex`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/3.2/sigplanconf-template.tex)
    - [`sigplanconf-guide.pdf`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/3.2/sigplanconf-guide.pdf)
* version 2.8
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/2.8/sigplanconf.cls)
    - [`sigplanconf-template.tex`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/2.8/sigplanconf-template.tex)
    - [`sigplanconf-guide.pdf`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/2.8/sigplanconf-guide.pdf)
* version 2.7
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/2.7/sigplanconf.cls)
    - [`sigplanconf-template.tex`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/2.7/sigplanconf-template.tex)
* version 2.6
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/2.6/sigplanconf.cls)
    - [`sigplanconf-template.tex`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/2.6/sigplanconf-template.tex)
* version 2.5
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/2.5/sigplanconf.cls)
* version 2.4
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/2.4/sigplanconf.cls)
* version 2.3
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/2.3/sigplanconf.cls)
* version 1.9
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/1.9/sigplanconf.cls)
* version 1.8
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/1.8/sigplanconf.cls)
* version 1.5
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/1.5/sigplanconf.cls)
* version 1.4
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/1.4/sigplanconf.cls)
* version 1.2
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/1.2/sigplanconf.cls)
    - [`sigplanconf-guide.pdf`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/1.2/sigplanconf-guide.pdf)
* version 1.0
    - [`sigplanconf.cls`](/sites/default/files/sigplanconf/1.0/sigplanconf.cls)
