Resources/Proposals/Sponsored.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "SIGPLAN Sponsorship Proposal"
---
Executive Summary
-----------------

Events sponsored by ACM SIGPLAN benefit from SIGPLAN's name and
oversight, and are underwritten financially by SIGPLAN. SIGPLAN takes
a close interest in its sponsored events, and helps with their
planning and organization.

Rationale
---------

As part of its activities, ACM SIGPLAN has two types of relationship
with conferences and workshops: *sponsorship* and *in-cooperation*. The
primary difference between the two is that SIGPLAN takes financial
responsibility for the events it sponsors, and accordingly requires 
a close working relationship with the organizers of the event. This page
describes sponsored status; a separate page describes
[in-cooperation status](/Resources/Proposals/Cooperated).  

Benefits
--------

Sponsored status provides a number of benefits:

- You can use the name "The ACM SIGPLAN Conference/Workshop on ..." for
  the event.
- SIGPLAN takes financial responsibility for the event.
- You have access to the [PAC Fund](/PAC)
  to support participation in the event.
- Any proceedings will automatically be published in the Digital Library.
- ACM can provide help with site selection, including venue negotiations.
- You will receive help and guidance in organizing the event,
  including an instruction manual.

These are in addition to the benefits available with in-cooperation status:

- Announcements about the meeting can be disseminated via
  SIGPLAN's mailing list. (Contact
  [infodir\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:infodir_sigplan@acm.org?subject=SIGPLAN%20Mailing%20List).)
- You will get entries in the _Call for Papers_
  and _Professional Calendar_ sections of _Communications of the ACM_, free of charge.
- You can also buy an advert in _CACM_ at a special rate. All placement
  of such adverts should be arranged through ACM Headquarters. Please
  check CACM as to the lead time required. Discounts on ACM mailing
  lists are also available.
- You will also have space reserved in _SIGPLAN Notices_ for the final report
  summarizing the meeting.

Responsibilities
----------------

The requirements for SIGPLAN sponsored status
include the following:

- The event must have an open call for participation and a clearly
  documented evaluation and review process.
- The meeting must be budgeted according to the ACM sponsorship rules,
  which include filling out a standard budget form. The event is
  expected at least to break even financially.
- Registration costs should be reasonable; if there is a reduced
  registration rate, then SIGPLAN members should be eligible for it.
- For its various administrative services, such as providing help,
  information, publicity, mailing lists, and producing a proceedings,
  a percentage of conference income is budgeted for ACM services.
- Critical decisions, such as setting the budget and selecting the
  program chair and the program committee, have to be approved by
  the [SIGPLAN Executive Committee](/ContactUs).
- A final post-event report is required.  

Sponsored events are encouraged to follow
SIGPLAN policies and procedures, including the following:

- [Diversity Policy](/Resources/Policies/Diversity)
- [Conference Submission Review Policy](/Resources/Policies/Review)
- [Republication Policy](/Resources/Policies/Republication)
- [Guidelines for Steering Committee Formation/Management](/Resources/Guidelines/SCommittee)
- [Guidelines for the General Chair](/Resources/Guidelines/GenChair)
- [Guidelines for the Program Chair](/Resources/Guidelines/ProChair)
- [Code of Conduct Policy](/Resources/Policies/CodeOfConduct/)

In addition, event organizers are encouraged to contact the ACM
Headquarters ([incoop@acm.org](mailto:incoop@acm.org)), to have
SIGPLAN membership materials sent directly to the conference
location for display there.   

Publication
-----------

-   A SIGPLAN-sponsored event might have an official
    proceedings, in physical or in electronic form, or both. If it
    does, the proceedings must be made available in digital form for
    inclusion in the ACM Digital Library, regardless of how else it is
    published.  
-   If the proceedings are published on paper, the preferred route
    is to produce the proceedings as an ACM publication. However,
    alternative publishers are occasionally acceptable, usually for
    historical reasons.  
-   If you wish, _SIGPLAN Notices_ will consider publishing short
    abstracts of the papers presented at the meeting. This option
    requires negotiation with the 
    [_SIGPLAN Notices_ editor](mailto:infodir_sigplan@acm.org),
    at least six months in advance.  
-   Only SIGPLAN-sponsored conferences can have a proceedings
    published as an issue of _SIGPLAN Notices_. A request must be made to the
    [SIGPLAN Executive Committee](/ContactUs) for this. Note that
    proceedings can be published by ACM and included in the ACM Digital
    Library without appearing in _SIGPLAN Notices_.

How to Apply
------------

To attain SIGPLAN sponsored status, you need SIGPLAN to endorse your proposal.
To achieve this, send a request to the
[SIGPLAN Vice Chair](mailto:vc_sigplan@acm.org),
preferably at least **eighteen months before** the event is to take
place. The request should include the following information, **in plain text** (not PDF or Word, please):

1.  Name, date, and location of meeting.
2.  Focus of the meeting.
3.  Intended audience and size.
4.  Organization of the meeting.
5.  Plans for soliciting conference participation, such as a call
    for papers/panels, etc.
6.  Submission review process, including size and expected
    composition of the program committee.
7.  Plans for publication.
8.  Names and affiliations of the organizers.
9.  Relevant information about any previous meeting,
    such as date, organizers, paper submission/acceptance counts,
    attendance, site, budget, and registration fees
    (if applicable).
10. List of any other financial resources, including other
    sponsorships and grants.
11. URL of the meeting information page.  

What Happens Next
-----------------

The request will be considered by the
[SIGPLAN Executive Committee](/ContactUs). A response to
the request is usually given within two weeks. The Executive Committee
can only endorse the request; final approval
comes from ACM, with the acceptance of the budget submitted with the
Technical Meeting Request Form.

The TMRF should be submitted to ACM at least 12 months in advance of
the event start date. Official ACM approval may take 4 to 6 weeks. It
is critical to await approval prior to spending funds and executing
contracts.
[Guidelines and forms](http://www.acm.org/sigs/volunteer_resources/conference_manual/manual_read_me)
are available from the ACM website; 
[contact them](mailto:paf_tmrf@acm.org) if you have any questions.


Event Series
------------

For SIGPLAN-sponsored events that occur on a
regular basis as part of a series (for example, every year),
SIGPLAN offers on-going sponsorship. Such events must be
organized by a Steering Committee (SC). The SC, working
in partnership with the SIGPLAN Executive Committee (EC), is
responsible for the overall organization and financial plan of each
instance of the series. SIGPLAN has
[guidelines for steering committee organization](/Resources/Guidelines/SCommittee).  

To obtain ongoing sponsorship, the organizing group should send a
proposal to the [SIGPLAN Vice Chair](mailto:vc_sigplan@acm.org),
giving the information listed above for a sponsored event, for the
previous (up to) three instances and any planned future instances.
The request should also specify the proposed rules for the steering
committee composition and evolution, the method for selecting the
chair, and the responsibilities of the committee; these rules must
conform to [SIGPLAN guidelines for SCs](http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/SCommittee).

If an event is granted ongoing sponsored status, then:

-   the Steering Committee must obtain approval for General Chair and
    Program Chair selections from the SIGPLAN EC, prior to inviting the
    selected individuals;
-   approval still needs to be sought from ACM via their TMRF for each event,
    as explained above;
-   the Program Chair of each event must obtain
    approval for Program Committee members from the SIGPLAN EC, prior
    to inviting the selected individuals, and the selection must conform to
    [SIGPLAN's Diversity Policy](/Resources/Policies/Diversity);
-   the General Chair of each event must provide the SIGPLAN Vice
    Chair with a post-event report;
-   the Steering Committee must contact the SIGPLAN Vice Chair when
    the composition or chair of the SC changes.  

See Also
--------

_SIGPLAN Chair_:
[chair\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:chair_sigplan@acm.org)  
_SIGPLAN Vice Chair_:
[vc\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:vc_sigplan@acm.org)  
_SIGPLAN Information Director_:
[infodir\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:infodir_sigplan@acm.org?subject=Conference%20Information)  
_ACM Representative to SIGPLAN_ (Abigail Sumandal):
[sumandal@hq.acm.org](mailto:sumandal@hq.acm.org)

Commit message:

Further updates to better integrate the PC proposal spreadsheet into the many pages that mention PC formation

Resources/Proposals/Sponsored.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "SIGPLAN Sponsorship Proposal"
---
Executive Summary
-----------------

Events sponsored by ACM SIGPLAN benefit from SIGPLAN's name and
oversight, and are underwritten financially by SIGPLAN. SIGPLAN takes
a close interest in its sponsored events, and helps with their
planning and organization.

Rationale
---------

As part of its activities, ACM SIGPLAN has two types of relationship
with conferences and workshops: *sponsorship* and *in-cooperation*. The
primary difference between the two is that SIGPLAN takes financial
responsibility for the events it sponsors, and accordingly requires 
a close working relationship with the organizers of the event. This page
describes sponsored status; a separate page describes
[in-cooperation status](/Resources/Proposals/Cooperated).  

Benefits
--------

Sponsored status provides a number of benefits:

- You can use the name "The ACM SIGPLAN Conference/Workshop on ..." for
  the event.
- SIGPLAN takes financial responsibility for the event.
- You have access to the [PAC Fund](/PAC)
  to support participation in the event.
- Any proceedings will automatically be published in the Digital Library.
- ACM can provide help with site selection, including venue negotiations.
- You will receive help and guidance in organizing the event,
  including an instruction manual.

These are in addition to the benefits available with in-cooperation status:

- Announcements about the meeting can be disseminated via
  SIGPLAN's mailing list. (Contact
  [infodir\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:infodir_sigplan@acm.org?subject=SIGPLAN%20Mailing%20List).)
- You will get entries in the _Call for Papers_
  and _Professional Calendar_ sections of _Communications of the ACM_, free of charge.
- You can also buy an advert in _CACM_ at a special rate. All placement
  of such adverts should be arranged through ACM Headquarters. Please
  check CACM as to the lead time required. Discounts on ACM mailing
  lists are also available.
- You will also have space reserved in _SIGPLAN Notices_ for the final report
  summarizing the meeting.

Responsibilities
----------------

The requirements for SIGPLAN sponsored status
include the following:

- The event must have an open call for participation and a clearly
  documented evaluation and review process.
- The meeting must be budgeted according to the ACM sponsorship rules,
  which include filling out a standard budget form. The event is
  expected at least to break even financially.
- Registration costs should be reasonable; if there is a reduced
  registration rate, then SIGPLAN members should be eligible for it.
- For its various administrative services, such as providing help,
  information, publicity, mailing lists, and producing a proceedings,
  a percentage of conference income is budgeted for ACM services.
- Critical decisions, such as setting the budget and selecting the
  program chair and the program committee, have to be approved by
  the [SIGPLAN Executive Committee](/ContactUs).
- A final post-event report is required.  

Sponsored events are encouraged to follow
SIGPLAN policies and procedures, including the following:

- [Diversity Policy](/Resources/Policies/Diversity)
- [Conference Submission Review Policy](/Resources/Policies/Review)
- [Republication Policy](/Resources/Policies/Republication)
- [Guidelines for Steering Committee Formation/Management](/Resources/Guidelines/SCommittee)
- [Guidelines for the General Chair](/Resources/Guidelines/GenChair)
- [Guidelines for the Program Chair](/Resources/Guidelines/ProChair)
- [Code of Conduct Policy](/Resources/Policies/CodeOfConduct/)

In addition, event organizers are encouraged to contact the ACM
Headquarters ([incoop@acm.org](mailto:incoop@acm.org)), to have
SIGPLAN membership materials sent directly to the conference
location for display there.   

Publication
-----------

-   A SIGPLAN-sponsored event might have an official
    proceedings, in physical or in electronic form, or both. If it
    does, the proceedings must be made available in digital form for
    inclusion in the ACM Digital Library, regardless of how else it is
    published.  
-   If the proceedings are published on paper, the preferred route
    is to produce the proceedings as an ACM publication. However,
    alternative publishers are occasionally acceptable, usually for
    historical reasons.  
-   If you wish, _SIGPLAN Notices_ will consider publishing short
    abstracts of the papers presented at the meeting. This option
    requires negotiation with the 
    [_SIGPLAN Notices_ editor](mailto:infodir_sigplan@acm.org),
    at least six months in advance.  
-   Only SIGPLAN-sponsored conferences can have a proceedings
    published as an issue of _SIGPLAN Notices_. A request must be made to the
    [SIGPLAN Executive Committee](/ContactUs) for this. Note that
    proceedings can be published by ACM and included in the ACM Digital
    Library without appearing in _SIGPLAN Notices_.

How to Apply
------------

To attain SIGPLAN sponsored status, you need SIGPLAN to endorse your proposal.
To achieve this, send a request to the
[SIGPLAN Vice Chair](mailto:vc_sigplan@acm.org),
preferably at least **eighteen months before** the event is to take
place. The request should include the following information, **in plain text** (not PDF or Word, please):

1.  Name, date, and location of meeting.
2.  Focus of the meeting.
3.  Intended audience and size.
4.  Organization of the meeting.
5.  Plans for soliciting conference participation, such as a call
    for papers/panels, etc.
6.  Submission review process, including size and expected
    composition of the program committee.
7.  Plans for publication.
8.  Names and affiliations of the organizers.
9.  Relevant information about any previous meeting,
    such as date, organizers, paper submission/acceptance counts,
    attendance, site, budget, and registration fees
    (if applicable).
10. List of any other financial resources, including other
    sponsorships and grants.
11. URL of the meeting information page.  

What Happens Next
-----------------

The request will be considered by the
[SIGPLAN Executive Committee](/ContactUs). A response to
the request is usually given within two weeks. The Executive Committee
can only endorse the request; final approval
comes from ACM, with the acceptance of the budget submitted with the
Technical Meeting Request Form.

The TMRF should be submitted to ACM at least 12 months in advance of
the event start date. Official ACM approval may take 4 to 6 weeks. It
is critical to await approval prior to spending funds and executing
contracts.
[Guidelines and forms](http://www.acm.org/sigs/volunteer_resources/conference_manual/manual_read_me)
are available from the ACM website; 
[contact them](mailto:paf_tmrf@acm.org) if you have any questions.


Event Series
------------

For SIGPLAN-sponsored events that occur on a
regular basis as part of a series (for example, every year),
SIGPLAN offers on-going sponsorship. Such events must be
organized by a Steering Committee (SC). The SC, working
in partnership with the SIGPLAN Executive Committee (EC), is
responsible for the overall organization and financial plan of each
instance of the series. SIGPLAN has
[guidelines for steering committee organization](/Resources/Guidelines/SCommittee).  

To obtain ongoing sponsorship, the organizing group should send a
proposal to the [SIGPLAN Vice Chair](mailto:vc_sigplan@acm.org),
giving the information listed above for a sponsored event, for the
previous (up to) three instances and any planned future instances.
The request should also specify the proposed rules for the steering
committee composition and evolution, the method for selecting the
chair, and the responsibilities of the committee; these rules must
conform to [SIGPLAN guidelines for SCs](http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Guidelines/SCommittee).

If an event is granted ongoing sponsored status, then:

-   the Steering Committee must obtain approval for General Chair and
    Program Chair selections from the SIGPLAN EC, prior to inviting the
    selected individuals;
-   approval still needs to be sought from ACM via their TMRF for each event,
    as explained above;
-   the Program Chair of each event must obtain approval for Program Committee
    members (by submitting a completed
    [PC proposal 
    spreadsheet](/Resources/Guidelines/sigplan-pc-proposal-template.xlsx))
    from the SIGPLAN EC prior to inviting the selected individuals, and the
    selection must conform to
    [SIGPLAN's Diversity Policy](/Resources/Policies/Diversity);
-   the General Chair of each event must provide the SIGPLAN Vice
    Chair with a post-event report;
-   the Steering Committee must contact the SIGPLAN Vice Chair when
    the composition or chair of the SC changes.  

Contacts
--------

_SIGPLAN Chair_:
[chair\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:chair_sigplan@acm.org)  
_SIGPLAN Vice Chair_:
[vc\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:vc_sigplan@acm.org)  
_SIGPLAN Information Director_:
[infodir\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:infodir_sigplan@acm.org?subject=Conference%20Information)  
_ACM Representative to SIGPLAN_ (Abigail Sumandal):
[sumandal@hq.acm.org](mailto:sumandal@hq.acm.org)
