Awards/Dissertation.md, before:

---
layout: award
title: "John C. Reynolds Doctoral Dissertation Award"
---

Presented annually to the author of the outstanding doctoral
dissertation in the area of Programming Languages. The award includes
a prize of $1,000. The winner can choose to receive the award at ICFP,
OOPSLA, POPL, or PLDI.

All questions about the John C. Reynolds Doctoral Dissertation Award should be directed to
**<mailto:reynolds_award@sigplan.org>**.

**Nominations**

Nominations must be submitted via the SIGPLAN Awards Nomination Portal
at <https://awards.sigplan.org/nominate/reynolds/> by January 5th 2017
(anywhere on earth) to be considered for this year's award. The
nominated dissertation must have been awarded in 2016 and be available
in English (to facilitate evaluation by the selection committee).

A nomination consists of the following items:

 *  Name, address, phone number, and email address of the person making the nomination (the nominator).
 *  Name, address, phone number, and email address of the candidate for whom an award is recommended (the nominee).
 *  Dissertation - either as a pdf or a url where the dissertation can be found.
 *  A short statement (200-500 words) explaining why the nominee merits the award.
 *  Supporting statements from up to two people in addition to the nominator.

This award recognizes the contributions to computer science that John
C. Reynolds made during his life. It is a renaming of the SIGPLAN
Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation Award to encourage the clarity and
rigor that Reynolds embodied and at the same time provide a reminder
of Reynolds's legacy and the difference a person can make in the field
of programming language research.

Reynolds is renowned for his many technical contributions.

 * Gedanken, a core untyped language mixing functional and imperative features, which influenced Scheme;
 * Defunctionalization, which gives principled ways of constructing compilers;
 * Polymorphic λ-calculus, a fundamental calculus of polymorphic functions, which influenced Java and C# generics;
 * Syntactic control of interference, a resource-oriented type system, which prefigured linear logic;
 * λ-calculus with subtypes, which is a foundational component of object-oriented type systems;
 * Idealized Algol, a core typed language for mixing imperative and functional features, which prefigured monads in Haskell;
 * Possible-world semantics for local state, a widely-used technique in programming language theory;
 * Relational parametricity, a fundamental theory of data abstraction;
 * Separation logic, an extension of Hoare logic to mutable data structures, which forms the basis of a new generation of proof tools.

Reynolds was an inspiration to all he worked with. He was well known
for helping colleagues and students work through ideas. But his
influence went well beyond his immediate circle; many researchers who
never worked with Reynolds nevertheless built on his ideas.


**Selection Committee**

 * [Derek Dreyer](https://www.mpi-sws.org/~dreyer/) - Max Planck Institute for Software Systems <mailto:dreyer@mpi-sws.org>
 * [Susan Eisenbach](http://www.imperial.ac.uk/people/s.eisenbach) - Imperial College London (SIGPLAN member and Chair) <mailto:s.eisenbach@imperial.ac.uk>
 * [Martin Erwig](http://web.engr.oregonstate.edu/~erwig/) – Oregon State University <mailto:erwig@oregonstate.edu>
 * [Nate Foster](http://www.cs.cornell.edu/~jnfoster/) – Barefoot Networks / Cornell University <mailto:jnfoster@cs.cornell.edu>
 * [Georges Gonthier](http://www.msr-inria.fr/researchers/georges-gonthier/) – Inria <mailto:georges.gonthier@inria.fr>
 * [Arie Gurfinkel](https://uwaterloo.ca/electrical-computer-engineering/people-profiles/arie-gurfinkel)  - University of Waterloo <mailto:arie.gurfinkel@uwaterloo.ca>
 * [Mike Hicks](http://www.cs.umd.edu/~mwh/) - University of Maryland (ex officio member as SIGPLAN Chair) <mailto:mwh@cs.umd.edu>
 * [Mira Mezini](http://www.stg.tu-darmstadt.de/staff/mira_mezini/) - Technical University of Darmstadt <mailto:mezini@informatik.tu-darmstadt.de>
 * [Andreas Podelski](https://swt.informatik.uni-freiburg.de/staff/podelski) – University of Freiburg <mailto:podelski@informatik.uni-freiburg.de>
 * [Alexandra Silva](http://www.alexandrasilva.org/#/main.html) – University College London <mailto:alexandra.silva@ucl.ac.uk>
 * [Mooly Sagiv](http://www.cs.tau.ac.il/~msagiv/) – Tel Aviv University <mailto:msagiv@acm.org>

Commit message:

Update Awards/Dissertation.md to clarify multiple awardees and/or honorable mentions

Awards/Dissertation.md, after:

---
layout: award
title: "John C. Reynolds Doctoral Dissertation Award"
---

Presented annually to the author of an outstanding doctoral
dissertation in the area of Programming Languages. The award includes
a prize of $1,000. The awardee can choose to receive the award at
ICFP, OOPSLA, POPL, or PLDI. At the discretion of the Selection
Committee, multiple awards and/or honorable mentions may be presented
for a given year.

All questions about the John C. Reynolds Doctoral Dissertation Award should be directed to
**<mailto:reynolds_award@sigplan.org>**.

**Nominations**

Nominations must be submitted via the SIGPLAN Awards Nomination Portal
at <https://awards.sigplan.org/nominate/reynolds/> by January 5th 2017
(anywhere on earth) to be considered for this year's award. The
nominated dissertation must have been awarded in 2016 and be available
in English (to facilitate evaluation by the selection committee).

A nomination consists of the following items:

 *  Name, address, phone number, and email address of the person making the nomination (the nominator).
 *  Name, address, phone number, and email address of the candidate for whom an award is recommended (the nominee).
 *  Dissertation - either as a pdf or a url where the dissertation can be found.
 *  A short statement (200-500 words) explaining why the nominee merits the award.
 *  Supporting statements from up to two people in addition to the nominator.

This award recognizes the contributions to computer science that John
C. Reynolds made during his life. It is a renaming of the SIGPLAN
Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation Award to encourage the clarity and
rigor that Reynolds embodied and at the same time provide a reminder
of Reynolds's legacy and the difference a person can make in the field
of programming language research.

Reynolds is renowned for his many technical contributions.

 * Gedanken, a core untyped language mixing functional and imperative features, which influenced Scheme;
 * Defunctionalization, which gives principled ways of constructing compilers;
 * Polymorphic λ-calculus, a fundamental calculus of polymorphic functions, which influenced Java and C# generics;
 * Syntactic control of interference, a resource-oriented type system, which prefigured linear logic;
 * λ-calculus with subtypes, which is a foundational component of object-oriented type systems;
 * Idealized Algol, a core typed language for mixing imperative and functional features, which prefigured monads in Haskell;
 * Possible-world semantics for local state, a widely-used technique in programming language theory;
 * Relational parametricity, a fundamental theory of data abstraction;
 * Separation logic, an extension of Hoare logic to mutable data structures, which forms the basis of a new generation of proof tools.

Reynolds was an inspiration to all he worked with. He was well known
for helping colleagues and students work through ideas. But his
influence went well beyond his immediate circle; many researchers who
never worked with Reynolds nevertheless built on his ideas.


**Selection Committee**

 * [Derek Dreyer](https://www.mpi-sws.org/~dreyer/) - Max Planck Institute for Software Systems <mailto:dreyer@mpi-sws.org>
 * [Susan Eisenbach](http://www.imperial.ac.uk/people/s.eisenbach) - Imperial College London (SIGPLAN member and Chair) <mailto:s.eisenbach@imperial.ac.uk>
 * [Martin Erwig](http://web.engr.oregonstate.edu/~erwig/) – Oregon State University <mailto:erwig@oregonstate.edu>
 * [Nate Foster](http://www.cs.cornell.edu/~jnfoster/) – Barefoot Networks / Cornell University <mailto:jnfoster@cs.cornell.edu>
 * [Georges Gonthier](http://www.msr-inria.fr/researchers/georges-gonthier/) – Inria <mailto:georges.gonthier@inria.fr>
 * [Arie Gurfinkel](https://uwaterloo.ca/electrical-computer-engineering/people-profiles/arie-gurfinkel)  - University of Waterloo <mailto:arie.gurfinkel@uwaterloo.ca>
 * [Mike Hicks](http://www.cs.umd.edu/~mwh/) - University of Maryland (ex officio member as SIGPLAN Chair) <mailto:mwh@cs.umd.edu>
 * [Mira Mezini](http://www.stg.tu-darmstadt.de/staff/mira_mezini/) - Technical University of Darmstadt <mailto:mezini@informatik.tu-darmstadt.de>
 * [Andreas Podelski](https://swt.informatik.uni-freiburg.de/staff/podelski) – University of Freiburg <mailto:podelski@informatik.uni-freiburg.de>
 * [Alexandra Silva](http://www.alexandrasilva.org/#/main.html) – University College London <mailto:alexandra.silva@ucl.ac.uk>
 * [Mooly Sagiv](http://www.cs.tau.ac.il/~msagiv/) – Tel Aviv University <mailto:msagiv@acm.org>
