Awards/Educator.md, before:

---
layout: award
title: "Distinguished Educator Award"
---

Given by ACM SIGPLAN to recognize distinguished educational
contributions to the Programming Languages Community. The award
recognizes contributions to ACM SIGPLAN, its conferences,
publications, or its local activities. The award includes a prize of
$2,500.

We define contributions in the broadest sense. In particular we wish
to recognize:

- Pedagogy about programming languages
- Pedagogy using novel programming languages ideas
- Pedagogy as broadly construed:
  - both curriculum and delivery
  - classroom (school, undergraduate, graduate)
  - online courses
  - online blogs/videos, etc.

All questions about the Distinguished Educator Award should be
directed to the SIGPLAN Awards co-Chairs.

#### Nominations

Please use <https://sigplan-educator26.hotcrp.com> to submit nominations.
Nominations submitted on or before January 15th will be considered for
award that year.  A nomination for the Distinguished Educator Award
that is not selected will remain in consideration for a total of three
years. In any given year at most one nomination will be selected (if
no nominee is strong enough there should be no award that year).

Each nomination should include the following items:

- Name, affiliation, phone number, and email address of the candidate for
  whom an award is recommended (the nominee).
- Name, affiliation, phone number, and email address of the person
  making the nomination (the nominator).
- A short statement explaining why the nominee deserves the
  award. This should include any information about the context of the
  work to help the Award Committee understand its significance.
- Names and email addresses of 5-10 people who the nominator believes
  will support the nomination. The awards committee will ask at least
  three of these people for their opinions.

The candidate may be nominated simultaneously for other awards, such
as the ACM Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award.

#### Committee

Award recipients are selected by a committee constituted as follows:
* The Chair of the committee shall be a member of the SIGPLAN
  Executive Committee (EC), and shall be appointed by the executive
  committee.
* The SIGPLAN EC Chair shall be an ex-officio member of the committee.
  If the SIGPLAN EC Chair is unable to serve, he or she may appoint
  another member of the SIGPLAN EC as a substitute.
* The steering committees of the major SIGPLAN Conferences, POPL,
  PLDI, ICFP, and SPLASH, shall each appoint a member to the
  committee.

The current committee comprises:
* [Niki Vazou](https://nikivazou.github.io/), IMDEA (Chair)
* [Andrew Myers](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/andru/), Cornell U (ex-officio)
* [Will Crichton](https://willcrichton.net/), Brown U (SPLASH)
* [John Wickerson](https://johnwickerson.github.io/), Imperial (PLDI)
* [Michael Greenberg](https://www.stevens.edu/profile/mgreenbe), Stevens (POPL)
* [Johan Jeuring](https://johanjeuring.github.io/), Utrecht U (ICFP)

#### Conflicts of Interest

If any member of the committee has a conflict of interest with a given
nominee they shall declare that to the committee; once so declared,
conflicts of interest shall not automatically prevent a committee
member from taking part in the selection process. However, if a member
of the committee, or the chair of the committee, feels that the
association of a committee member with a nominee would interfere with
impartial consideration of the nominees, that conflicted member shall
be absented from the relevant parts of the discussion. If a committee
member has conflicts of interest with more than one nominee, the Chair
of the Committee may ask the constituency that appointed the committee
member to select a replacement member.  The SIGPLAN EC Chair will
adjudicate as necessary.

Commit message:

Update nomination requirements for Educator award
Added submission details for letters of support.

Awards/Educator.md, after:

---
layout: award
title: "Distinguished Educator Award"
---

Given by ACM SIGPLAN to recognize distinguished educational
contributions to the Programming Languages Community. The award
recognizes contributions to ACM SIGPLAN, its conferences,
publications, or its local activities. The award includes a prize of
$2,500.

We define contributions in the broadest sense. In particular we wish
to recognize:

- Pedagogy about programming languages
- Pedagogy using novel programming languages ideas
- Pedagogy as broadly construed:
  - both curriculum and delivery
  - classroom (school, undergraduate, graduate)
  - online courses
  - online blogs/videos, etc.

All questions about the Distinguished Educator Award should be
directed to the SIGPLAN Awards co-Chairs.

#### Nominations

Please use <https://sigplan-educator26.hotcrp.com> to submit nominations.
Nominations submitted on or before January 15th will be considered for
award that year.  A nomination for the Distinguished Educator Award
that is not selected will remain in consideration for a total of three
years. In any given year at most one nomination will be selected (if
no nominee is strong enough there should be no award that year).

Each nomination should include the following items:

- Name, affiliation, phone number, and email address of the candidate for
  whom an award is recommended (the nominee).
- Name, affiliation, phone number, and email address of the person
  making the nomination (the nominator).
- A short statement explaining why the nominee deserves the
  award. This should include any information about the context of the
  work to help the Award Committee understand its significance.
- Names and email addresses of 5-10 people who the nominator believes
  will support the nomination. The letters of support should be submitted by Feb 20th either
  by the nominator (at hotcrp) or by email to the chair (niki.vazou@imdea.org). 

The candidate may be nominated simultaneously for other awards, such
as the ACM Karl V. Karlstrom Outstanding Educator Award.

#### Committee

Award recipients are selected by a committee constituted as follows:
* The Chair of the committee shall be a member of the SIGPLAN
  Executive Committee (EC), and shall be appointed by the executive
  committee.
* The SIGPLAN EC Chair shall be an ex-officio member of the committee.
  If the SIGPLAN EC Chair is unable to serve, he or she may appoint
  another member of the SIGPLAN EC as a substitute.
* The steering committees of the major SIGPLAN Conferences, POPL,
  PLDI, ICFP, and SPLASH, shall each appoint a member to the
  committee.

The current committee comprises:
* [Niki Vazou](https://nikivazou.github.io/), IMDEA (Chair)
* [Andrew Myers](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/andru/), Cornell U (ex-officio)
* [Will Crichton](https://willcrichton.net/), Brown U (SPLASH)
* [John Wickerson](https://johnwickerson.github.io/), Imperial (PLDI)
* [Michael Greenberg](https://www.stevens.edu/profile/mgreenbe), Stevens (POPL)
* [Johan Jeuring](https://johanjeuring.github.io/), Utrecht U (ICFP)

#### Conflicts of Interest

If any member of the committee has a conflict of interest with a given
nominee they shall declare that to the committee; once so declared,
conflicts of interest shall not automatically prevent a committee
member from taking part in the selection process. However, if a member
of the committee, or the chair of the committee, feels that the
association of a committee member with a nominee would interfere with
impartial consideration of the nominees, that conflicted member shall
be absented from the relevant parts of the discussion. If a committee
member has conflicts of interest with more than one nominee, the Chair
of the Committee may ask the constituency that appointed the committee
member to select a replacement member.  The SIGPLAN EC Chair will
adjudicate as necessary.
