Awards/Milner.md, before:

---
layout: award
title: "Robin Milner Young Researcher Award"
---

The Robin Milner Young Researcher Award is given by ACM SIGPLAN to
recognize outstanding contributions by young investigators in the area
of programming languages. Individuals are eligible if their
computer-related professional career (graduate school or full-time
employment, whichever began first) started no earlier than 20 years
prior to the nomination deadline. At the discretion of the award
committee, eligibility may be adjusted to account for documented
career interruptions, including (but not limited to) family leave,
medical leave, or military service. Questions of eligibility should be
directed to the award committee chair in advance of nomination (see
below).

The award includes a prize of $2,500.

All questions about the Robin Milner Young Researcher Award should be
directed to the SIGPLAN Awards co-Chairs.

**Robin Milner** (13 January, 1934 - 20 March, 2010)

Robin Milner was, for decades, a leading light in programming language
research, developing many of the ideas that now form the backbone of
the field. Among Milner's biggest gifts to the field was his passion
for mentoring and nurturing young colleagues, many of whom have grown
into world leaders in their own right. It seems fitting that an award
be established in his name to further encourage new generations of
outstanding researchers.

Milner's academic career began with posts at City University
(University of London), Swansea, and Stanford. In 1973 he joined the
University of Edinburgh, where in 1986 he co-founded the legendary
Laboratory for Foundations of Computer Science (LFCS). In 1995 he left
Edinburgh for Cambridge, where he was head of the Computer Laboratory
for several years. He became a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1998 and
received the Turing Award in 1991. The Turing Award citation includes
this capsule summary of his contributions:

> Working in challenging areas of computer science for twenty years,
> Robin Milner has the distinction of establishing an international
> reputation for three distinct and complete achievements, each of
> which has had and will continue to have a marked, important, and
> widespread effect on both the theory and practice of computer
> science:
> 
> LCF, the mechanization of Scott's Logic of Computable Functions,
> probably the first theoretically based yet practical tool for
> machine-assisted proof construction.  ML, the first language to
> include polymorphic type inference together with a type-safe
> exception-handling mechanism.  CCS, a general theory of concurrency.
> In addition, he formulated and strongly advanced full abstraction,
> the study of the relationship between operational and denotational
> semantics.

A key ingredient in all of his work was to combine deep insight into
mathematical foundations of the subject with an equally deep view of
the key engineering issues, thus allowing the feedback of theory into
practice in an exciting way. Further, his style of scholarship, rigor,
and attention to aesthetic quality sets a high example for all to
follow.

#### Nominations

Nominations can be submitted at any time at
<https://milner26.hotcrp.com>. Nominations submitted on or before
January 15th will be considered for award that year. The committee may
decline to make an award in a given year if there are no suitable
nominees.

#### Committee

Award recipients are selected by a committee constituted as follows:
* The Chair of the committee shall be a member of the SIGPLAN
  Executive Committee (EC), and shall be appointed by the executive
  committee.
* The SIGPLAN EC Chair shall be an ex-officio member of the committee.
  If the SIGPLAN EC Chair is unable to serve, he or she may appoint
  another member of the SIGPLAN EC as a substitute.
* The steering committees of the major SIGPLAN Conferences, POPL,
  PLDI, ICFP, and SPLASH, shall each appoint a member to the
  committee.

The current committee is:
* [Niki Vazou](https://nikivazou.github.io/), IMDEA (Chair)
* [Anders Møller](https://cs.au.dk/~amoeller/), Aarhus U
* [Brigitte Pientka](https://www.cs.mcgill.ca/~bpientka/research.html), McGill U
* [Sophia Drosopoulou](https://wp.doc.ic.ac.uk/sd/), Imperial (SPLASH)
* [Amal Ahmed](https://www.khoury.northeastern.edu/home/amal/), Northeastern U (POPL)
* [Lars Birkedal](https://cs.au.dk/~birke/), Aarhus U (ICFP)
* [Steve Blackburn](https://www.steveblackburn.org/),  Australian National U (PLDI)

#### Conflicts of Interest

Because this award is intended to recognize persons of major
influence, it is likely that several members of the committee may have
worked with, or co-authored articles with, the nominees, and may have
a conflict of interest. The primary mechanism for handling such
conflicts will be to declare them to the committee; once so declared,
conflicts of interest shall not automatically prevent a committee
member from taking part in the selection process. However, if a member
of the committee, or the chair of the committee, feels that the
association of a committee member with a nominee would interfere with
impartial consideration of the nominees, that conflicted member shall
be absented from the relevant parts of the discussion. If a committee
member has conflicts of interest with more than one nominee, the Chair
of the Committee may ask the constituency that appointed the committee
member to select a replacement member.  The SIGPLAN EC Chair will
adjudicate as necessary.

Commit message:

Revise nomination deadline and supporter requirements
Updated nomination deadline and requirements for submissions.

Awards/Milner.md, after:

---
layout: award
title: "Robin Milner Young Researcher Award"
---

The Robin Milner Young Researcher Award is given by ACM SIGPLAN to
recognize outstanding contributions by young investigators in the area
of programming languages. Individuals are eligible if their
computer-related professional career (graduate school or full-time
employment, whichever began first) started no earlier than 20 years
prior to the nomination deadline. At the discretion of the award
committee, eligibility may be adjusted to account for documented
career interruptions, including (but not limited to) family leave,
medical leave, or military service. Questions of eligibility should be
directed to the award committee chair in advance of nomination (see
below).

The award includes a prize of $2,500.

All questions about the Robin Milner Young Researcher Award should be
directed to the SIGPLAN Awards co-Chairs.

**Robin Milner** (13 January, 1934 - 20 March, 2010)

Robin Milner was, for decades, a leading light in programming language
research, developing many of the ideas that now form the backbone of
the field. Among Milner's biggest gifts to the field was his passion
for mentoring and nurturing young colleagues, many of whom have grown
into world leaders in their own right. It seems fitting that an award
be established in his name to further encourage new generations of
outstanding researchers.

Milner's academic career began with posts at City University
(University of London), Swansea, and Stanford. In 1973 he joined the
University of Edinburgh, where in 1986 he co-founded the legendary
Laboratory for Foundations of Computer Science (LFCS). In 1995 he left
Edinburgh for Cambridge, where he was head of the Computer Laboratory
for several years. He became a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1998 and
received the Turing Award in 1991. The Turing Award citation includes
this capsule summary of his contributions:

> Working in challenging areas of computer science for twenty years,
> Robin Milner has the distinction of establishing an international
> reputation for three distinct and complete achievements, each of
> which has had and will continue to have a marked, important, and
> widespread effect on both the theory and practice of computer
> science:
> 
> LCF, the mechanization of Scott's Logic of Computable Functions,
> probably the first theoretically based yet practical tool for
> machine-assisted proof construction.  ML, the first language to
> include polymorphic type inference together with a type-safe
> exception-handling mechanism.  CCS, a general theory of concurrency.
> In addition, he formulated and strongly advanced full abstraction,
> the study of the relationship between operational and denotational
> semantics.

A key ingredient in all of his work was to combine deep insight into
mathematical foundations of the subject with an equally deep view of
the key engineering issues, thus allowing the feedback of theory into
practice in an exciting way. Further, his style of scholarship, rigor,
and attention to aesthetic quality sets a high example for all to
follow.

#### Nominations

Nominations can be submitted at any time at
<https://milner26.hotcrp.com>. Nominations submitted on or before
January 22nd will be considered for award that year. 
The nomination requires 5-10 supporters that should submit their letters of support by Feb 20th, 
either directly by the nominator (at the hotcrp) or by mail to the chair (at niki.vazou@imdea.org).
The committee may
decline to make an award in a given year if there are no suitable
nominees.

#### Committee

Award recipients are selected by a committee constituted as follows:
* The Chair of the committee shall be a member of the SIGPLAN
  Executive Committee (EC), and shall be appointed by the executive
  committee.
* The SIGPLAN EC Chair shall be an ex-officio member of the committee.
  If the SIGPLAN EC Chair is unable to serve, he or she may appoint
  another member of the SIGPLAN EC as a substitute.
* The steering committees of the major SIGPLAN Conferences, POPL,
  PLDI, ICFP, and SPLASH, shall each appoint a member to the
  committee.

The current committee is:
* [Niki Vazou](https://nikivazou.github.io/), IMDEA (Chair)
* [Anders Møller](https://cs.au.dk/~amoeller/), Aarhus U
* [Brigitte Pientka](https://www.cs.mcgill.ca/~bpientka/research.html), McGill U
* [Sophia Drosopoulou](https://wp.doc.ic.ac.uk/sd/), Imperial (SPLASH)
* [Amal Ahmed](https://www.khoury.northeastern.edu/home/amal/), Northeastern U (POPL)
* [Lars Birkedal](https://cs.au.dk/~birke/), Aarhus U (ICFP)
* [Steve Blackburn](https://www.steveblackburn.org/),  Australian National U (PLDI)

#### Conflicts of Interest

Because this award is intended to recognize persons of major
influence, it is likely that several members of the committee may have
worked with, or co-authored articles with, the nominees, and may have
a conflict of interest. The primary mechanism for handling such
conflicts will be to declare them to the committee; once so declared,
conflicts of interest shall not automatically prevent a committee
member from taking part in the selection process. However, if a member
of the committee, or the chair of the committee, feels that the
association of a committee member with a nominee would interfere with
impartial consideration of the nominees, that conflicted member shall
be absented from the relevant parts of the discussion. If a committee
member has conflicts of interest with more than one nominee, the Chair
of the Committee may ask the constituency that appointed the committee
member to select a replacement member.  The SIGPLAN EC Chair will
adjudicate as necessary.
