Awards/Service.md, before:

---
layout: award
title: "Distinguished Service Award"
---

Awarded on the basis of value and degree of services to the
Programming Languages Community. The award recognizes contributions
to ACM SIGPLAN, its conferences, publications, or its local
activities. The award includes a prize of $2,500.  

**Selection Committee**  
The chair of the selection committee is a
member of the EC appointed by the SIGPLAN chair. Other committee
members are selected by the chair of the selection committee with
approval of the SIGPLAN chair. The SIGPLAN Chair is an ex officio
member of the committee and shall adjudicate conflicts of interest,
appointing substitutes to the committee as necessary.

**Nominations**  
Nominations can be submitted at any time to the
[secretary](mailto:secretary_sigplan@acm.org) of SIGPLAN.
Nominations submitted by **January 5th** will be considered for
that year's award.&#160; A nomination for the distinguished service
award that is not awarded will remain for 3 years.
Each nomination should consist of the following items:

-   Name, address, phone number, and email address of the person
    making the nomination (the nominator).
-   Name, address, phone number, and email address of the candidate
    for whom an award is recommended (the nominee).
-   A short statement (200-500 words) explaining why the nominee
    deserves the award in question.
-   Names and email addresses of 5-10 people who the nominator
    believes will support the nomination. The awards committee will ask
    some of these people for their opinions.

Commit message:

Update Awards/Service to note ineligibility of SIGPLAN EC Members

Awards/Service.md, after:

---
layout: award
title: "Distinguished Service Award"
---

Awarded on the basis of value and degree of services to the
Programming Languages Community. The award recognizes contributions to
ACM SIGPLAN, its conferences, publications, or its local
activities. The award includes a prize of $2,500. Current members of
the ACM SIGPLAN Executive Committee are not eligible for this award.

**Selection Committee**  
The chair of the selection committee is a
member of the EC appointed by the SIGPLAN chair. Other committee
members are selected by the chair of the selection committee with
approval of the SIGPLAN chair. The SIGPLAN chair is an ex officio
member of the committee and shall adjudicate conflicts of interest,
appointing substitutes to the committee as necessary.

**Nominations**  
Nominations can be submitted at any time to the
[secretary](mailto:secretary_sigplan@acm.org) of SIGPLAN.
Nominations submitted by **January 5th** will be considered for
that year's award.&#160; A nomination for the distinguished service
award that is not awarded will remain for 3 years.
Each nomination should consist of the following items:

-   Name, address, phone number, and email address of the person
    making the nomination (the nominator).
-   Name, address, phone number, and email address of the candidate
    for whom an award is recommended (the nominee).
-   A short statement (200-500 words) explaining why the nominee
    deserves the award in question.
-   Names and email addresses of 5-10 people who the nominator
    believes will support the nomination. The awards committee will ask
    some of these people for their opinions.
