Awards/Software.md, before:

---
layout: award
title: "Programming Languages Software Award"
---

Given by ACM SIGPLAN to an institution or individual(s) to recognize
the development of a software system that has had a significant impact
on programming language research, implementations, and tools. The
impact may be reflected in the widespread adoption of the system or
its underlying concepts by the wider programming language community
either in research projects, in the open-source community, or
commercially. The award includes a prize of $2,500. The award is
presented at SIGPLAN's [PLDI conference](/Conferences/PLDI) the
following June.

All questions about the Programming Languages Software Award should be
directed to the SIGPLAN Awards co-Chairs.

#### Nominations

Please use <https://sigplan-software26.hotcrp.com> to submit nominations.
Nominations submitted on or before January 15th will be considered for
award that year.

Each nomination should include the following items:

- Name of the software system being nominated, the name of the
  institution or team being nominated, and their contact details
- A short statement explaining why the nominee(s) deserve the
  award.
- Name, affiliation, phone number, and email address of each of the
  developers nominated for the award (the nominees)
- Name, affiliation, phone number, and email address of the person
  making the nomination (the nominator).
- Names and email addresses of 5-10 people who the nominator believes
  will support the nomination. The awards committee will ask at least
  three of these people for their opinions.

#### Committee

Award recipients are selected by a committee constituted as follows:
* The Chair of the committee shall be a member of the SIGPLAN
  Executive Committee (EC), and shall be appointed by the executive
  committee.
* The SIGPLAN EC Chair shall be an ex-officio member of the committee.
  If the SIGPLAN EC Chair is unable to serve, he or she may appoint
  another member of the SIGPLAN EC as a substitute.
* The steering committees of the major SIGPLAN Conferences, POPL,
  PLDI, ICFP, and SPLASH, shall each appoint a member to the
  committee.

The current committee comprises:
* [Niki Vazou](https://nikivazou.github.io/), IMDEA (Chair)
* [Andrew Myers](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/andru/), Cornell U (ex-officio)
* [David Grove](https://researcher.watson.ibm.com/researcher/view.php?person=us-groved), IBM Research (SPLASH)
* [Alastair Donaldson](https://www.doc.ic.ac.uk/~afd/), Imperial (PLDI)
* [Xavier Leroy](https://xavierleroy.org/), Inria (ICFP)
* [Amal Ahmed](https://www.khoury.northeastern.edu/home/amal/), Northeastern U (POPL)

#### Conflicts of Interest

If any member of the committee has a conflict of interest with a given
nominee they shall declare that to the committee; once so declared,
conflicts of interest shall not automatically prevent a committee
member from taking part in the selection process. However, if a member
of the committee, or the chair of the committee, feels that the
association of a committee member with a nominee would interfere with
impartial consideration of the nominees, that conflicted member shall
be absented from the relevant parts of the discussion. If a committee
member has conflicts of interest with more than one nominee, the Chair
of the Committee may ask the constituency that appointed the committee
member to select a replacement member.  The SIGPLAN EC Chair will
adjudicate as necessary

Commit message:

Clarify nomination process for awards
Updated the nomination process to include submission details for letters of support.

Awards/Software.md, after:

---
layout: award
title: "Programming Languages Software Award"
---

Given by ACM SIGPLAN to an institution or individual(s) to recognize
the development of a software system that has had a significant impact
on programming language research, implementations, and tools. The
impact may be reflected in the widespread adoption of the system or
its underlying concepts by the wider programming language community
either in research projects, in the open-source community, or
commercially. The award includes a prize of $2,500. The award is
presented at SIGPLAN's [PLDI conference](/Conferences/PLDI) the
following June.

All questions about the Programming Languages Software Award should be
directed to the SIGPLAN Awards co-Chairs.

#### Nominations

Please use <https://sigplan-software26.hotcrp.com> to submit nominations.
Nominations submitted on or before January 15th will be considered for
award that year.

Each nomination should include the following items:

- Name of the software system being nominated, the name of the
  institution or team being nominated, and their contact details
- A short statement explaining why the nominee(s) deserve the
  award.
- Name, affiliation, phone number, and email address of each of the
  developers nominated for the award (the nominees)
- Name, affiliation, phone number, and email address of the person
  making the nomination (the nominator).
- Names and email addresses of 5-10 people who the nominator believes
  will support the nomination. The letters of support should be submitted by Feb 20th either by the nominator (at hotcrp) or by email to the chair (niki.vazou@imdea.org).

#### Committee

Award recipients are selected by a committee constituted as follows:
* The Chair of the committee shall be a member of the SIGPLAN
  Executive Committee (EC), and shall be appointed by the executive
  committee.
* The SIGPLAN EC Chair shall be an ex-officio member of the committee.
  If the SIGPLAN EC Chair is unable to serve, he or she may appoint
  another member of the SIGPLAN EC as a substitute.
* The steering committees of the major SIGPLAN Conferences, POPL,
  PLDI, ICFP, and SPLASH, shall each appoint a member to the
  committee.

The current committee comprises:
* [Niki Vazou](https://nikivazou.github.io/), IMDEA (Chair)
* [Andrew Myers](https://www.cs.cornell.edu/andru/), Cornell U (ex-officio)
* [David Grove](https://researcher.watson.ibm.com/researcher/view.php?person=us-groved), IBM Research (SPLASH)
* [Alastair Donaldson](https://www.doc.ic.ac.uk/~afd/), Imperial (PLDI)
* [Xavier Leroy](https://xavierleroy.org/), Inria (ICFP)
* [Amal Ahmed](https://www.khoury.northeastern.edu/home/amal/), Northeastern U (POPL)

#### Conflicts of Interest

If any member of the committee has a conflict of interest with a given
nominee they shall declare that to the committee; once so declared,
conflicts of interest shall not automatically prevent a committee
member from taking part in the selection process. However, if a member
of the committee, or the chair of the committee, feels that the
association of a committee member with a nominee would interfere with
impartial consideration of the nominees, that conflicted member shall
be absented from the relevant parts of the discussion. If a committee
member has conflicts of interest with more than one nominee, the Chair
of the Committee may ask the constituency that appointed the committee
member to select a replacement member.  The SIGPLAN EC Chair will
adjudicate as necessary
