Resources/Guidelines/GenChair.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "Guidelines for the General Chair of a SIGPLAN Event"
---
Executive Summary
-----------------

You may be an experienced conference organizer, in which case much of
the advice on this page may already be familiar to you. Nevertheless,
even experienced organizers sometimes forget some important points, so
please at least skim this page, paying particular attention to the following:

- SIGPLAN's [conference submission review policy](/Resources/Policies/Review) 
- SIGPLAN's [diversity policy](/Resources/Policies/Diversity)
- SIGPLAN's [Republication Policy](/Resources/Policies/Republication)
- SIGPLAN's [Anti-Harassment Policy](/Resources/Policies/Anti-harassment/)
- if you plan to request in-cooperation or sponsored status, do so well in advance (twelve or eighteen months, respectively)
- seek approval for important roles (PC Chair, and for a sponsored event also PC members) from SIGPLAN Vice-Chair, *before* sending invitations
- consult with the conference Steering Committee before diverging from any existing conventions

Programme Chair
---------------

Select potential Programme Chair(s) and send their names to SIGPLAN
Chair and Vice-Chair for approval. Get approval before asking the
person to serve (18 months prior to the event). Make sure the
Programme Chair reviews SIGPLAN's [conference submission review
policy](/Resources/Policies/Review) and [diversity
policy](/Resources/Policies/Diversity).

Date and Location
-----------------

Select three potential sites for the conference and send them to the
ACM representative and the SIGPLAN Vice-Chair. If the event is part of
a series, then the date of the conference has probably been
established by the time you agreed to serve as chair (two years prior
to the meeting). Please be careful about what information you provide
directly to the hotels, so as not to reduce ACM's negotiating
leverage.

Submission and Review Policies
------------------------------

The Programme Chair may not submit papers to the conference, and
SIGPLAN Executive Committee recommends that
the General Chair also not be allowed to submit papers. 
The conference steering committee should be consulted for any
changes to the accepted way of organizing and running the
conference. The SIGPLAN Executive Committee serves as the steering
committee for those conferences without steering
committees of their own.

Approval and Call for Papers
----------------------------

Develop a timeline, at least eighteen months in advance of the conference date.
Unless the conference is part of a series which already has approval
for ongoing sponsorship, submit to the SIGPLAN Vice-Chair a [SIGPLAN
sponsorship request form](/Resources/Proposals/Sponsored) eighteen months
before the date of the conference. If you are unsure as to whether you
need to submit a request form, ask the [SIGPLAN Vice
Chair](mailto:vc_sigplan@acm.org?subject=SIGPLAN%20Sponsorship).  An
ACM [preliminary approval
form](http://www.acm.org/sigs/volunteer_resources/prelimpage) (PAF)
must be submitted in order to issue a call for papers.  Submitting a
PAF also causes the conference to be added to ACM's master calendar.

Website
-------

Establish a web site for the conference and send the URL to the
SIGPLAN [Information
Director](mailto:infodir_sigplan@acm.org?subject=Conference%20Information)
(as soon as date and site are determined). You can put a preliminary
call on the web without listing the programme committee, but a PAF
must have been approved.

Financial Support for Students
----------------------------------

The Professional Activities Committee of SIGPLAN has been established
to award [travel grants](/PAC) for students to present at
SIGPLAN-sponsored events. Please mention its availability on your web
page.  PAC also has supported programmes for underrepresented
groups. If you would like to explore this possibility, please contact
the PAC chair, listed on the PAC web page.

Consider seeking NSF funding to support student participation too. If
you do so, do it well in advance, and consider specifying ACM as the
recipient of the funds, so that they can handle disbursement.

Organizational Team
-------------------

Select other members of the organizational team (e.g., local
arrangements chair, publicity chair, publications chair, tutorial
chair, etc). Send the names to the SIGPLAN Chair and Vice-Chair,
one year before the event.  Complete the [TMRF budget
form](http://www.acm.org/sig_volunteer_info/conference_manual/sponstmrfpage.htm).
The budget must include line items for [contingency and return-to-SIG
fees](/Resources/Guidelines/Budget).

Local arrangements (such as registration and hotel management) for the
main SIGPLAN conferences PLDI, OOPSLA, POPL, and ICFP are usually
handled by a professional organization.

The conference steering committee should be consulted about any
changes to the accepted way of organizing and running the
conference.  

Finances
--------

ACM handles the bank accounts for sponsored conferences. Send email to
the [ACM Representative to SIGPLAN](mailto:spinola@hq.acm.org?subject=Conference%20advance)
for an advance. Expenses for reimbursement should also be sent to
the
[ACM Representative to SIGPLAN](mailto:spinola@hq.acm.org?subject=Conference%20expenses).
Andrew Black wrote a [document](/sites/default/files/SIGPLAN_conference_finances_for_beginners.pdf)
after SPLASH 2014 explaining where the money was spent.

Programme Committee
-------------------

Help the Programme Chair to select the programme committee. The list
of potential committee members has to be approved by the SIGPLAN Chair
and Vice-Chair before the members are invited. You and the PC Chair
should decide on policies for submission and revewing (see
[Guidelines for Program Committee Chair](/Resources/Guidelines/ProChair)).

Satellite Events
----------------

Co-located conferences or workshops make your event more attractive to
participants.  Consider appointing a workshop chair to coordinate
them. Establish a deadline for submission of workshop proposals. You
should contact chairs of co-located events and plan the common advance
programme, joint technical sessions, joint social events, etc. You
should consider workshops on "hot" topics. Have the workshop chairs
submit a proposal to the SIGPLAN Vice-Chair, as specified in the
[In-Cooperation](/Resources/Proposals/Cooperated) or
[Sponsorship](/Resources/Proposals/Sponsored) 
web pages.

Preparing the Programme
-----------------------

Once the conference programme is set, prepare an advance programme that
can be posted on the conference's web page. The advance programme can
also be used to create a schedule of events to be
handed out at the on-site conference registration.  

Post-event Reporting
--------------------

Send a report at the end of the conference to the SIGPLAN 
Vice-Chair. The report should include information about any
workshops that co-located with the conference. Please include:

-   number of attendees, broken down into categories (ACM
    members, students, SIGPLAN members),
-   number of papers and/or proposals submitted and the number
    accepted,
-   financial information,
-   general description of events that went well and those that did
    not, and
-   discussion of problems.

Important Email Addresses
-------------------------

_SIGPLAN Chair_:
[chair\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:chair_sigplan@acm.org)  
_SIGPLAN Vice Chair_:
[vc\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:vc_sigplan@acm.org)  
_SIGPLAN Information Director_:
[infodir\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:infodir_sigplan@acm.org?subject=Conference%20Information)  
_ACM Representative to SIGPLAN_ (Fran Spinola):
[spinola@hq.acm.org](mailto:spinola@hq.acm.org)

See Also
--------

-   [Calendar of Upcoming SIGPLAN Conferences](http://campus.acm.org/calendar/index.cfm?Sponsor=SIGPLAN)
- ACM's *[How to Organize a Conference](http://www.acm.org/sigs/volunteer_resources/conference_manual/conference_manual-toc)* manual
- [ACM's How to Organize a Conference](http://www.acm.org/sig_volunteer_info/conference_manual/prelimpage.htm)
- SIGPLAN conference style [LaTeX class file](/sites/default/files/Author/sigplanconf.cls),
  [article template](/sites/default/files/Author/sigplanconf-template.tex), and
  [user guide](/sites/default/files/Author/sigplanconf-guide.pdf)
- "[Where did all the money go? SIGPLAN conference finances for beginners](/sites/default/files/SIGPLAN_conference_finances_for_beginners.pdf)", Andrew Black, to appear in SIGPLAN Notices.

Some columns containing useful advice for conference organizers have
been published in _SIGPLAN Notices_ over the years:

-   [Experiences with Author Response at PLDI and ICFP 2004](http://portalparts.acm.org/1060000/1052883/fm/frontmatter.pdf),
        Kathleen Fisher and Craig Chambers, (*SIGPLAN Notices*, Dec. 2004)
-   [Conferences with improved management and style](http://portalparts.acm.org/1140000/1137933/fm/frontmatter.pdf),
        Philip Wadler (*SIGPLAN Notices*, Feb. 2006)
-   [SIGPLAN EC Activities: Vice Chair Report](http://portalparts.acm.org/1150000/1149982/fm/frontmatter.pdf),
        Kathleen Fisher (*SIGPLAN Notices*, May 2006)
-   [A Report from the POPL 2007 Chairman](http://portalparts.acm.org/1230000/1229493/fm/frontmatter.pdf),
        Matthias Felleisen (*SIGPLAN Notices*, December 2006)
-   [How to chair a conference](http://portalparts.acm.org/1990000/1988042/fm/frontmatter.pdf), Alex Aiken (*SIGPLAN Notices*, April 2011).

Commit message:

Add link to G. Castagna 'Handbook for PC Chairs' to GenChair and ProChair (suggested by P. Wadler)

Resources/Guidelines/GenChair.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "Guidelines for the General Chair of a SIGPLAN Event"
---
Executive Summary
-----------------

You may be an experienced conference organizer, in which case much of
the advice on this page may already be familiar to you. Nevertheless,
even experienced organizers sometimes forget some important points, so
please at least skim this page, paying particular attention to the following:

- SIGPLAN's [conference submission review policy](/Resources/Policies/Review) 
- SIGPLAN's [diversity policy](/Resources/Policies/Diversity)
- SIGPLAN's [Republication Policy](/Resources/Policies/Republication)
- SIGPLAN's [Anti-Harassment Policy](/Resources/Policies/Anti-harassment/)
- if you plan to request in-cooperation or sponsored status, do so well in advance (twelve or eighteen months, respectively)
- seek approval for important roles (PC Chair, and for a sponsored event also PC members) from SIGPLAN Vice-Chair, *before* sending invitations
- consult with the conference Steering Committee before diverging from any existing conventions

Programme Chair
---------------

Select potential Programme Chair(s) and send their names to SIGPLAN
Chair and Vice-Chair for approval. Get approval before asking the
person to serve (18 months prior to the event). Make sure the
Programme Chair reviews SIGPLAN's [conference submission review
policy](/Resources/Policies/Review) and [diversity
policy](/Resources/Policies/Diversity).

Date and Location
-----------------

Select three potential sites for the conference and send them to the
ACM representative and the SIGPLAN Vice-Chair. If the event is part of
a series, then the date of the conference has probably been
established by the time you agreed to serve as chair (two years prior
to the meeting). Please be careful about what information you provide
directly to the hotels, so as not to reduce ACM's negotiating
leverage.

Submission and Review Policies
------------------------------

The Programme Chair may not submit papers to the conference, and
SIGPLAN Executive Committee recommends that
the General Chair also not be allowed to submit papers. 
The conference steering committee should be consulted for any
changes to the accepted way of organizing and running the
conference. The SIGPLAN Executive Committee serves as the steering
committee for those conferences without steering
committees of their own.

Approval and Call for Papers
----------------------------

Develop a timeline, at least eighteen months in advance of the conference date.
Unless the conference is part of a series which already has approval
for ongoing sponsorship, submit to the SIGPLAN Vice-Chair a [SIGPLAN
sponsorship request form](/Resources/Proposals/Sponsored) eighteen months
before the date of the conference. If you are unsure as to whether you
need to submit a request form, ask the [SIGPLAN Vice
Chair](mailto:vc_sigplan@acm.org?subject=SIGPLAN%20Sponsorship).  An
ACM [preliminary approval
form](http://www.acm.org/sigs/volunteer_resources/prelimpage) (PAF)
must be submitted in order to issue a call for papers.  Submitting a
PAF also causes the conference to be added to ACM's master calendar.

Website
-------

Establish a web site for the conference and send the URL to the
SIGPLAN [Information
Director](mailto:infodir_sigplan@acm.org?subject=Conference%20Information)
(as soon as date and site are determined). You can put a preliminary
call on the web without listing the programme committee, but a PAF
must have been approved.

Financial Support for Students
----------------------------------

The Professional Activities Committee of SIGPLAN has been established
to award [travel grants](/PAC) for students to present at
SIGPLAN-sponsored events. Please mention its availability on your web
page.  PAC also has supported programmes for underrepresented
groups. If you would like to explore this possibility, please contact
the PAC chair, listed on the PAC web page.

Consider seeking NSF funding to support student participation too. If
you do so, do it well in advance, and consider specifying ACM as the
recipient of the funds, so that they can handle disbursement.

Organizational Team
-------------------

Select other members of the organizational team (e.g., local
arrangements chair, publicity chair, publications chair, tutorial
chair, etc). Send the names to the SIGPLAN Chair and Vice-Chair,
one year before the event.  Complete the [TMRF budget
form](http://www.acm.org/sig_volunteer_info/conference_manual/sponstmrfpage.htm).
The budget must include line items for [contingency and return-to-SIG
fees](/Resources/Guidelines/Budget).

Local arrangements (such as registration and hotel management) for the
main SIGPLAN conferences PLDI, OOPSLA, POPL, and ICFP are usually
handled by a professional organization.

The conference steering committee should be consulted about any
changes to the accepted way of organizing and running the
conference.  

Finances
--------

ACM handles the bank accounts for sponsored conferences. Send email to
the [ACM Representative to SIGPLAN](mailto:spinola@hq.acm.org?subject=Conference%20advance)
for an advance. Expenses for reimbursement should also be sent to
the
[ACM Representative to SIGPLAN](mailto:spinola@hq.acm.org?subject=Conference%20expenses).
Andrew Black wrote a [document](/sites/default/files/SIGPLAN_conference_finances_for_beginners.pdf)
after SPLASH 2014 explaining where the money was spent.

Programme Committee
-------------------

Help the Programme Chair to select the programme committee. The list
of potential committee members has to be approved by the SIGPLAN Chair
and Vice-Chair before the members are invited. You and the PC Chair
should decide on policies for submission and revewing (see
[Guidelines for Program Committee Chair](/Resources/Guidelines/ProChair)).

Satellite Events
----------------

Co-located conferences or workshops make your event more attractive to
participants.  Consider appointing a workshop chair to coordinate
them. Establish a deadline for submission of workshop proposals. You
should contact chairs of co-located events and plan the common advance
programme, joint technical sessions, joint social events, etc. You
should consider workshops on "hot" topics. Have the workshop chairs
submit a proposal to the SIGPLAN Vice-Chair, as specified in the
[In-Cooperation](/Resources/Proposals/Cooperated) or
[Sponsorship](/Resources/Proposals/Sponsored) 
web pages.

Preparing the Programme
-----------------------

Once the conference programme is set, prepare an advance programme that
can be posted on the conference's web page. The advance programme can
also be used to create a schedule of events to be
handed out at the on-site conference registration.  

Post-event Reporting
--------------------

Send a report at the end of the conference to the SIGPLAN 
Vice-Chair. The report should include information about any
workshops that co-located with the conference. Please include:

-   number of attendees, broken down into categories (ACM
    members, students, SIGPLAN members),
-   number of papers and/or proposals submitted and the number
    accepted,
-   financial information,
-   general description of events that went well and those that did
    not, and
-   discussion of problems.

Important Email Addresses
-------------------------

_SIGPLAN Chair_:
[chair\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:chair_sigplan@acm.org)  
_SIGPLAN Vice Chair_:
[vc\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:vc_sigplan@acm.org)  
_SIGPLAN Information Director_:
[infodir\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:infodir_sigplan@acm.org?subject=Conference%20Information)  
_ACM Representative to SIGPLAN_ (Fran Spinola):
[spinola@hq.acm.org](mailto:spinola@hq.acm.org)

See Also
--------

- [Calendar of Upcoming SIGPLAN Conferences](http://campus.acm.org/calendar/index.cfm?Sponsor=SIGPLAN)
- ACM's *[How to Organize a Conference](http://www.acm.org/sigs/volunteer_resources/conference_manual/conference_manual-toc)* manual
- [ACM's How to Organize a Conference](http://www.acm.org/sig_volunteer_info/conference_manual/prelimpage.htm)
- SIGPLAN conference style [LaTeX class file](/sites/default/files/Author/sigplanconf.cls),
  [article template](/sites/default/files/Author/sigplanconf-template.tex), and
  [user guide](/sites/default/files/Author/sigplanconf-guide.pdf)
- "[Where did all the money go? SIGPLAN conference finances for beginners](/sites/default/files/SIGPLAN_conference_finances_for_beginners.pdf)", Andrew Black, to appear in SIGPLAN Notices.

Some columns containing useful advice for conference organizers have
been published in _SIGPLAN Notices_ and elsewhere over the years:

-   [Experiences with Author Response at PLDI and ICFP 2004](http://portalparts.acm.org/1060000/1052883/fm/frontmatter.pdf),
        Kathleen Fisher and Craig Chambers, (*SIGPLAN Notices*, Dec. 2004)
-   [Conferences with improved management and style](http://portalparts.acm.org/1140000/1137933/fm/frontmatter.pdf),
        Philip Wadler (*SIGPLAN Notices*, Feb. 2006)
-   [SIGPLAN EC Activities: Vice Chair Report](http://portalparts.acm.org/1150000/1149982/fm/frontmatter.pdf),
        Kathleen Fisher (*SIGPLAN Notices*, May 2006)
-   [A Report from the POPL 2007 Chairman](http://portalparts.acm.org/1230000/1229493/fm/frontmatter.pdf),
        Matthias Felleisen (*SIGPLAN Notices*, December 2006)
-   [How to chair a conference](http://portalparts.acm.org/1990000/1988042/fm/frontmatter.pdf), Alex Aiken (*SIGPLAN Notices*, April 2011).
-   [A Handbook for [ECOOP] PC Chairs](http://www.pps.univ-paris-diderot.fr/~gc/papers/pc-handbook.pdf), Giuseppe Castagna
