Resources/Guidelines/ProChair.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "Guidelines for the Program Chair of a SIGPLAN Event"
---
Executive Summary
-----------------

You may be an experienced Program Chair, in which case much of the advice on
this page may already be familiar to you. Nevertheless, even experienced
chairs sometimes forget some important points, so please at least skim this
page, paying particular attention to the following:

- SIGPLAN's [conference policies](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1w5T6bGmUO-8vjHSHpwegkpyFzYypi9HcheUxMTjo-Jw/edit?usp=sharing_)
- SIGPLAN's [conference submission review policy](/Resources/Policies/Review) 
- SIGPLAN's [diversity policy](/Resources/Policies/Diversity)
- SIGPLAN's [republication policy](/Resources/Policies/Republication)
- SIGPLAN's [code of conduct policy](/Resources/Policies/CodeOfConduct/)
- SIGACCESS's [Guide to Creating a Conference Accessibility FAQ Page](http://www.sigaccess.org/welcome-to-sigaccess/resources/creating-a-conference-accessibility-faq-page/)
- For a SIGPLAN-sponsored event, seek approval for the Program Committee
  from the SIGPLAN Vice-Chair, *before* sending invitations 
- Consult with the conference Steering Committee before diverging from any
  existing conventions 
- Make sure the Call for Papers makes potential authors aware of SIGPLAN's
  [Copyright policies](https://authors.acm.org/main.html).  

Submission and Reviewing Policies
---------------------------------

The Program Chair may not submit papers to the conference, and SIGPLAN
Executive Committee recommends that the General Chair also not be allowed to
submit papers. If Program Committee members are allowed to submit papers,
their papers should be held to a higher standard, in order to avoid the
appearance of impropriety.

The PC Chair should make all program committee members and reviewers aware
of SIGPLAN's policies on
[reviewing of conference paper submissions](/Resources/Policies/Review) and
on [plagiarism](http://www.acm.org/publications/policies/plagiarism_policy).

The conference steering committee should be consulted for any changes to the
accepted way of organizing and running the conference.

You, the Program Chair, in consultation with the General Chair, should
decide on general policies relating to the program committee, such as:

- Will you have a physical PC meeting?  If so, when and where will it be
  held?  If not, will the PC discussion be a "synchronous" teleconference or
  an extended discussion over email or moderated by some conference
  management platform?  (Whichever you choose, SIGPLAN expects all PC
  members to participate fully in the PC meeting, except in unusual
  circumstances.)
- Who pays for the travel expenses of the PC members?
- Who pays for the conference registration of the PC members?  Typically,
  the PC member is responsible for all of his/her expenses, including
  registration. If a decision is made to provide funding for some/all of the
  members, these expenses must of course be included in the budget.

The previous year's Program Chair for the same conference is a good
resource; contact them for suggestions.

Program Committee
-------------------

In consultation with the General Chair, develop a list of potential Program
Committee members. In formulating this list, be mindful of
[SIGPLAN's diversity policy](/Resources/Policies/Diversity).  Also, expect
some people to decline the invitation, so have a list of alternates.  The
list should be finalized at least one year prior to the meeting.

Download the [PC proposal
spreadsheet](/Resources/Guidelines/sigplan-pc-proposal-template.xlsx)
template and enter the requested information for your proposed PC members
and alternates.  Send the completed spreadsheet to the SIGPLAN Vice Chair
([vc\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:vc_sigplan@acm.org)) for comments and approval
by the SIGPLAN Executive Committee.  The approval process normally takes ten
days to two weeks.

At the same time, make plans for the Program Committee meeting, so that
these can be communicated to potential PC members when you invite them:
choose the location (if physical) and finalize the date(s).

After SIGPLAN approval is confirmed, invite the people on the list to serve.
Explain what is expected of them and any
[policy decisions](/Resources/Policies/Review), and give them the date for
the PC meeting.  If more people than expected decline and you run out of
alternates, send the SIGPLAN Vice Chair another set of candidates for
approval.

Call for Papers
---------------

Develop a call for papers.
Note that you can produce a preliminary call without listing the
PC members. Make sure to put the call on the web site for the
conference (established by the General Chair). The web page
should refer prospective authors to SIGPLAN's
[Republication Policy](/Resources/Policies/Republication)
and to ACM's
[Policy and Procedures on Plagiarism](http://www.acm.org/publications/policies/plagiarism_policy).
Once the conference web page is in place, establish a link to the page
from the SIGPLAN conference page by contacting the SIGPLAN
[Information Director](mailto:infodir_sigplan@acm.org?subject=Conference%20Information).
  
If the proceedings will be published by ACM, declare explicitly in the call for
papers that authors of accepted submissions will be required to choose one of
the following options: Author retains copyright of the work and grants ACM a
non-exclusive permission-to-publish license (and, optionally, licenses the work
with a [Creative Commons license](https://creativecommons.org)); Author retains
copyright of the work and grants ACM an exclusive permssion-to-publish license;
Author transfers copyright of the work to ACM.  For more information, please see
[ACM Copyright
Policy](http://www.acm.org/publications/policies/copyright-policy) and [ACM
Author Rights](http://authors.acm.org/main.html).  Proceedings published by ACM
as an issue of PACMPL are Gold Open Access and the PACMPL editorial board
recommends the first option (author retains copyright of the work, licenses the
work with a [Creative Commons license](https://creativecommons.org), and grants
ACM a non-exclusive permission-to-publish license)

If presentations are to be videoed, mention that presenters must sign a
permission form in order for the video to be released online.

Mention that publication of auxiliary material is encouraged, and note the
associated copyright policy (see 'Auxiliary material', below).

The conference web page should include information about the various
benefits offered by the [SIGPLAN Professional Activities
Committee](/PAC) to SIGPLAN members attending SIGPLAN-sponsored
conferences. These benefits include travel and lodging assistance for
student authors and assistance for members who need a companion
care-provider in order to attend.

Author Response
---------------

Many SIGPLAN conferences have included author response as part of
the paper review process, and the general feedback concerning author
response has been positive (see
[Experiences with Author Response at PLDI and ICFP 2004](http://portalparts.acm.org/1060000/1052883/fm/frontmatter.pdf),
Kathleen Fisher and Craig Chambers, *SIGPLAN Notices*, Dec. 2004).
Program Chairs and Steering Committees are encouraged to consider
allowing author response or rebuttals as part of the paper review
process.  

Submission and Review
---------------------

Set up the paper submission web site. Many services are available
for this purpose. Most include support for the [ABCD rating scale][Nier00], 
author feedback, and double-blind reviewing.  

[Nier00]: http://www.iam.unibe.ch/~oscar/Champion/champion.pdf "Oscar Nierstrasz, _Identify the Champion_"
  
Some advice: Many systems make it easy to include ratings on a
large number of different scales, but please don't do this. Most
experienced PC chairs use only two scales, an overall rating and an
expertise rating. It also works best to have just two or three text
fields: one for a summary of the paper (this is optional), one for
comments for both the PC and the authors, and one for comments to
be seen by the PC only. The ABCD scale avoids ranking papers by
average: instead you can group papers by highest and lowest rating
(not a linear scale, since AD neither precedes nor follows BC).
For more details see:
[Conferences with improved management and style](http://portalparts.acm.org/1140000/1137933/fm/frontmatter.pdf),
Philip Wadler, _SIGPLAN Notices_, Feb. 2006.

Before papers are received, develop an evaluation procedure. Send
submitted papers and a description of the evaluation procedure to
the PC members.

PC Meeting
----------

Before the PC meeting,
decide on any policies that should be in effect, such as:

-   What defines a conflict of interest?
-   What happens if a PC member has a conflict of interest?
-   What are the rules of confidentiality?
-   Do you want to have a best paper award?

During the PC meeting,

-   decide how many papers you want to accept
-   decide what papers should be accepted
-   plan the sessions and the session chairs

It is *strongly* recommended that the Program Chair have an
assistant during the PC
meeting, to take on certain administrative
and logistical tasks during the meeting and allow the Program Chair to
concentrate on leading the discussions of papers. Typical duties of
the assistant would be to keep track of the disposition of
papers for the PC, interface with the on-line review
system, and record any relevant information about a particular
paper (e.g., paper Y paper is being shepherded by committee member
X, committee member X agrees to revise their on-line review, etc.).
Past Program Chairs have used graduate students or post-docs as
assistants, with good results.  

Any PC meeting expenses that are to be reimbursed by the conference should be
put in the conference budget. Send receipts to the
[ACM Representative to SIGPLAN](mailto:spinola@hq.acm.org?subject=Expenses)
for reimbursement.  

After the PC Meeting
--------------------

Send acceptance and rejection letters as soon as possible after the PC
meeting. Authors using LaTeX should be directed to the [template
developed by SIGPLAN](/Resources/Author). This template was designed to
allow more material in a paper while remaining easy on the eyes
(typically, a paper that requires 12 pages with the standard ACM
format requires 11 with the SIGPLAN format, and most readers find the
SIGPLAN style easier to read).

Managing the Proceedings
------------------------

The Sheridan proceedings service can be initiated once you decide
that you want formal proceedings. Please contact the 
[ACM Publications Coordinator](mailto:griscti@acm.org), Adrienne Griscti,
to begin the process. ACM will provide Sheridan with pertinent
conference information. Sheridan will forward you a schedule and
instructions on how to proceed.

Draft a "Letter from the Program Chair," which should
include a description of the paper selection process (number of
papers submitted and accepted, etc.). Forward the letter to
Sheridan along with any other front matter (perhaps a "Letter from the
Conference Chair," a List of Reviewers, etc.) for inclusion
in the proceedings. Sheridan will format all front matter; their
schedule will include a deadline for front matter submission. They
will also compile the table of contents/author index, using the
schedule of talks/advanced program that you provide to determine
paper order.  

Accepted authors will submit their papers directly to the Sheridan
web site. Once Sheridan have collected all of the papers/copyright
forms and front matter, compiled the table of contents/author index
and paginated the volume, they will provide camera-ready copy for
your review. The proceedings will not be printed until this
has been approved. It is a good idea to send
the table of contents to the contributing authors to confirm the
spelling of their names and affiliations. You then will be asked to
provide conference shipping information and the number of proceedings
needed for the conference.   

At the Conference
-----------------

At the meeting, give a short summary of the paper evaluation
process. Include the number of submissions, in what topical areas,
and the number of accepted papers. You might want to compare the
number of submissions and acceptances with the previous year (these
numbers should also be in the proceedings and the final report).
You should also explain the review process, e.g, how many PC
members reviewed each paper and the organization of the PC meeting.
You might want to talk about the geographic distribution of
submissions and any unusual trends. The summary should take about
15 minutes.  

After the Conference
--------------------

Help the Conference Chair prepare the post-event report for SIGPLAN EC.

As former Program Chair, you may be invited to serve on the
conference's Steering Committee. For the steering committee formal
rules for your particular conference, consult the relevant SIGPLAN
conference web page. Links to these pages can be be found
[here](/Conferences).  

The program chairs of the major SIGPLAN conferences, POPL, PLDI,
OOPSLA, and ICFP, are automatically on the selection committee for
the following year's
[SIGPLAN Programming Languages Achievement Award](/Awards/Achievement).  

Auxiliary Material
------------------

The ACM Digital Library and Sheridan Printing, who prepare many
ACM proceedings, are both set up to accept auxiliary material. The
SIGPLAN EC encourages SIGPLAN-sponsored conferences to accept such
material as part of the publication process. (Some conferences also
accept auxiliary material with submissions; this is an independent
issue.)

Auxiliary material may include

-   a technical report with additional details
-   source code for software
-   proof scripts for automated theorem provers
-   test data

or anything else relevant. It is SIGPLAN policy to encourage authors to
publish adequate auxiliary material to enable others to reproduce their
work.  Authors retain copyright of their auxiliary material, while copyright
of the paper can be either assigned to ACM or held by the authors. Referees
may examine auxiliary material, if it accompanies the submission, but this
should not be considered part of the review process. For an example of
auxiliary material in the Digital Library, see
[here](http://portal.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=1462173.1462178) and click on
"source materials".

Important Email Addresses
-------------------------

_SIGPLAN Chair_:
[chair\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:chair_sigplan@acm.org)  
_SIGPLAN Vice Chair_:
[vc\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:vc_sigplan@acm.org)  
_SIGPLAN Information Director_:
[infodir\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:infodir_sigplan@acm.org?subject=Conference%20Information)  
_ACM Representative to SIGPLAN_ (Abigail Sumandal):
[sumandal@hq.acm.org](mailto:sumandal@hq.acm.org)

See Also
--------

- [Calendar of Upcoming SIGPLAN Conferences](http://campus.acm.org/calendar/index.cfm?Sponsor=SIGPLAN)
- ACM's *[How to Organize a Conference](http://www.acm.org/sigs/volunteer_resources/conference_manual/conference_manual-toc)* manual
- [ACM's How to Organize a Conference](http://www.acm.org/sigs/volunteer_resources/conference_manual/manual_read_me)
- SIGPLAN conference style [LaTeX class file](http://www.sigplan.org/sites/default/files/sigplanconf.cls),
  [article template](http://www.sigplan.org/sites/default/files/sigplanconf-template.tex), and
  [user guide](http://www.sigplan.org/sites/default/files/sigplanconf-guide.pdf)
- [Author Information for SIGPLAN Conferences](/Resources/Author)
- [Guidelines for Referees](/Resources/Guidelines/Referees)

Some columns containing useful advice for conference organizers have
been published in _SIGPLAN Notices_ over the years:

- [Experiences with Author Response at PLDI and ICFP 2004](http://portalparts.acm.org/1060000/1052883/fm/frontmatter.pdf), Kathleen Fisher and Craig Chambers, (*SIGPLAN Notices*, Dec. 2004)
- [Conferences with improved management and style](http://portalparts.acm.org/1140000/1137933/fm/frontmatter.pdf), Philip Wadler (*SIGPLAN Notices*, Feb. 2006)
- [SIGPLAN EC Activities: Vice Chair Report](http://portalparts.acm.org/1150000/1149982/fm/frontmatter.pdf), Kathleen Fisher (*SIGPLAN Notices*, May 2006)
- [A Report from the POPL 2007 Chairman](http://portalparts.acm.org/1230000/1229493/fm/frontmatter.pdf), Matthias Felleisen (*SIGPLAN Notices*, December 2006)
- [How to chair a conference](http://portalparts.acm.org/1990000/1988042/fm/frontmatter.pdf), Alex Aiken (*SIGPLAN Notices*, April 2011)
- [POPL'12 program chair's report: (or, how to run a medium-sized conference)](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2442779), Michael Hicks (*SIGPLAN Notices*, April 2012)
- [Artifact evaluation for software conferences](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2502518), Shriram Krishnamurthi (*SIGPLAN Notices*, April 2013)
- [The OOPSLA two-phase review process](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2641648), Cristina V. Lopes (*SIGPLAN Notices*, April 2014)
- [A Handbook for [ECOOP] PC Chairs](http://www.pps.univ-paris-diderot.fr/~gc/papers/pc-handbook.pdf), Giuseppe Castagna

Commit message:

Bunch of tidying
... on the General Chair and Program Chair guidelines,
plus lots of comments and questions.  (The latter should be marked up so
that they do not appear in the HTML generated from the .md files, but this
would be worth confirming!)

Resources/Guidelines/ProChair.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "Guidelines for the Program Chair of a SIGPLAN Event"
---
Executive Summary
-----------------

You may be an experienced Program Chair, in which case much of the advice on
this page may already be familiar to you. Nevertheless, even experienced
chairs sometimes forget some important points, so please at least skim the
rest of this page and the following others:

- SIGPLAN's [conference policies](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1w5T6bGmUO-8vjHSHpwegkpyFzYypi9HcheUxMTjo-Jw/edit?usp=sharing_)
- SIGPLAN's [conference submission review policy](/Resources/Policies/Review) 
- SIGPLAN's [diversity policy](/Resources/Policies/Diversity)
- SIGPLAN's [republication policy](/Resources/Policies/Republication)
- SIGPLAN's [code of conduct policy](/Resources/Policies/CodeOfConduct/)
- SIGACCESS's [Guide to Creating a Conference Accessibility FAQ Page](http://www.sigaccess.org/welcome-to-sigaccess/resources/creating-a-conference-accessibility-faq-page/)
- For a SIGPLAN-sponsored event, seek approval for the Program Committee
  from the SIGPLAN Vice-Chair, *before* sending invitations 
- Consult with the conference Steering Committee before diverging from any
  existing conventions 
- Make sure the Call for Papers makes potential authors aware of SIGPLAN's
  [Copyright policies](https://authors.acm.org/main.html).  

Submission and Reviewing Policies
---------------------------------

The Program Chair may not submit papers to the conference; SIGPLAN's
Executive Committee recommends that the General Chair also not be allowed to
submit papers. If Program Committee members are allowed to submit papers,
their papers should be held to a higher standard, in order to avoid the
appearance of impropriety.

The PC Chair should make all program committee members and reviewers aware
of SIGPLAN's policies on
[reviewing of conference paper submissions](/Resources/Policies/Review) and
on [plagiarism](http://www.acm.org/publications/policies/plagiarism_policy).

The conference steering committee should be consulted for any changes to the
accepted way of organizing and running the conference.

You, the Program Chair, in consultation with the General Chair, should
decide on general policies relating to the program committee, such as:

- Will you have a physical PC meeting?  If so, when and where will it be
  held?  If not, will the PC discussion be a "synchronous" teleconference or
  an extended discussion over email or moderated by some conference
  management platform?  (Whichever you choose, SIGPLAN expects all PC
  members to participate fully in the PC meeting, except in unusual
  circumstances.)
- Who pays for the travel expenses of the PC members?
- Who pays for the conference registration of the PC members?  Typically,
  the PC member is responsible for all of his/her expenses, including
  registration. If a decision is made to provide funding for some/all of the
  members, these expenses must of course be included in the budget.

The previous year's Program Chair for the same conference is a good
resource; contact them for suggestions.

Program Committee
-------------------

In consultation with the General Chair, develop a list of potential Program
Committee members. In formulating this list, be mindful of [SIGPLAN's
diversity policy](/Resources/Policies/Diversity).  Also, some people will
decline the invitation, so your list should includes sufficient alternates.
The list should be finalized at least one year prior to the meeting.

Download the [PC proposal
spreadsheet](/Resources/Guidelines/sigplan-pc-proposal-template.xlsx)
template and enter the requested information for your proposed PC members
and alternates.  Send the completed spreadsheet to the SIGPLAN Vice Chair
([vc\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:vc_sigplan@acm.org)) for comments and approval
by the SIGPLAN Executive Committee.  The approval process normally takes ten
days to two weeks.

At the same time, make plans for the Program Committee meeting, so that
these can be communicated to potential PC members when you invite them:
choose the location (if physical) and finalize the date(s).

After SIGPLAN approval is confirmed, invite the people on the list to serve.
Explain what is expected of them and any relevant
[policy decisions](/Resources/Policies/Review), and give them the date for
the PC meeting.  If more people than expected decline and you run out of
alternates, send the SIGPLAN Vice Chair another set of candidates for
approval.

Call for Papers
---------------

Develop a call for papers.
Note that you can produce a preliminary call without listing the
PC members. Make sure to put the call on the web site for the
conference (established by the General Chair). The web page
should refer prospective authors to SIGPLAN's
[Republication Policy](/Resources/Policies/Republication)
and to ACM's
[Policy and Procedures on Plagiarism](http://www.acm.org/publications/policies/plagiarism_policy).
Once the conference web page is in place, establish a link to the page
from the SIGPLAN conference page by contacting the SIGPLAN
[Information Director](mailto:infodir_sigplan@acm.org?subject=Conference%20Information).
  
If the proceedings will be published by ACM, declare explicitly in the call for
papers that authors of accepted submissions will be required to choose one of
the following options: Author retains copyright of the work and grants ACM a
non-exclusive permission-to-publish license (and, optionally, licenses the work
with a [Creative Commons license](https://creativecommons.org)); Author retains
copyright of the work and grants ACM an exclusive permssion-to-publish license;
Author transfers copyright of the work to ACM.  For more information, please see
[ACM Copyright
Policy](http://www.acm.org/publications/policies/copyright-policy) and [ACM
Author Rights](http://authors.acm.org/main.html).  Proceedings published by ACM
as an issue of PACMPL are Gold Open Access and the PACMPL editorial board
recommends the first option (author retains copyright of the work, licenses the
work with a [Creative Commons license](https://creativecommons.org), and grants
ACM a non-exclusive permission-to-publish license)

If presentations are to be videoed, mention that presenters must sign a
permission form in order for the video to be released online.

Mention that publication of auxiliary material is encouraged, and note the
associated copyright policy (see 'Auxiliary material', below).

The conference web page should include information about the various
benefits offered by the [SIGPLAN Professional Activities
Committee](/PAC) to SIGPLAN members attending SIGPLAN-sponsored
conferences. These benefits include travel and lodging assistance for
student authors and assistance for members who need a companion
care-provider in order to attend.

Author Response
---------------

Many SIGPLAN conferences have included author response mecbhanisms as part of
the paper review process, and the general feedback concerning author
response has been positive (see
[Experiences with Author Response at PLDI and ICFP 2004](http://portalparts.acm.org/1060000/1052883/fm/frontmatter.pdf),
Kathleen Fisher and Craig Chambers, *SIGPLAN Notices*, Dec. 2004).
Program Chairs and Steering Committees are encouraged to consider
allowing author response or rebuttals as part of the paper review
process.  

Submission and Review
---------------------

Set up the paper submission web site. Many services are available
for this purpose. Most include support for the [ABCD rating scale][Nier00], 
author feedback, and double-blind reviewing.  

[Nier00]: http://www.iam.unibe.ch/~oscar/Champion/champion.pdf "Oscar Nierstrasz, _Identify the Champion_"
  
Some advice: Many systems make it easy to include ratings on a
large number of different scales, but please don't do this. Most
PC chairs use only two scales: an overall rating and an
expertise rating. It also works best to have just two or three text
fields: one for a summary of the paper (this is optional), one for
comments for both the PC and the authors, and one for comments to
be seen by the PC only. The ABCD scale avoids ranking papers by
average: instead you can group papers by highest and lowest rating
(not a linear scale, since AD neither precedes nor follows BC).
For more details see:
[Conferences with improved management and style](http://portalparts.acm.org/1140000/1137933/fm/frontmatter.pdf),
Philip Wadler, _SIGPLAN Notices_, Feb. 2006.

[comment]: # (BCP) Some of the above may be outdated, now that HotCRP is standard

Before papers are received, develop an evaluation procedure. Send
submitted papers and a description of the evaluation procedure to
the PC members.

PC Meeting
----------

[comment]: # (BCP) This applies only to physical PC meetings, which are no longer universal

Before the PC meeting,
decide on any policies that should be in effect, such as:

-   What defines a conflict of interest?
-   What happens if a PC member has a conflict of interest?
-   What are the rules of confidentiality?
-   Do you want to have a best paper award?

During the PC meeting,

-   decide how many papers you want to accept
-   decide what papers should be accepted
-   plan the sessions and the session chairs

It is *strongly* recommended that the Program Chair have an
assistant during the PC
meeting, to take on certain administrative
and logistical tasks during the meeting and allow the Program Chair to
concentrate on leading the discussions of papers. Typical duties of
the assistant would be to keep track of the disposition of
papers for the PC, interface with the on-line review
system, and record any relevant information about a particular
paper (e.g., paper Y paper is being shepherded by committee member
X, committee member X agrees to revise their on-line review, etc.).
Past Program Chairs have used graduate students or post-docs as
assistants, with good results.  

Any PC meeting expenses that are to be reimbursed by the conference should be
put in the conference budget. Send receipts to the
[ACM Representative to SIGPLAN](mailto:spinola@hq.acm.org?subject=Expenses)
for reimbursement.  

After the PC Meeting
--------------------

[comment]: # (BCP) Some of this may be out of date now that some conferences are on PACMPL

Send acceptance and rejection letters as soon as possible after the PC
meeting. Authors using LaTeX should be directed to the [template
developed by SIGPLAN](/Resources/Author). This template was designed to
allow more material in a paper while remaining easy on the eyes
(typically, a paper that requires 12 pages with the standard ACM
format requires 11 with the SIGPLAN format, and most readers find the
SIGPLAN style easier to read).

Managing the Proceedings
------------------------

The Sheridan proceedings service can be initiated once you decide
that you want formal proceedings. Please contact the 
[ACM Publications Coordinator](mailto:griscti@acm.org), Adrienne Griscti,
to begin the process. ACM will provide Sheridan with pertinent
conference information. Sheridan will forward you a schedule and
instructions on how to proceed.

Draft a "Letter from the Program Chair," which should
include a description of the paper selection process (number of
papers submitted and accepted, etc.). Forward the letter to
Sheridan along with any other front matter (perhaps a "Letter from the
Conference Chair," a List of Reviewers, etc.) for inclusion
in the proceedings. Sheridan will format all front matter; their
schedule will include a deadline for front matter submission. They
will also compile the table of contents/author index, using the
schedule of talks/advanced program that you provide to determine
paper order.  

Accepted authors will submit their papers directly to the Sheridan
web site. Once Sheridan have collected all of the papers/copyright
forms and front matter, compiled the table of contents/author index
and paginated the volume, they will provide camera-ready copy for
your review. The proceedings will not be printed until this
has been approved. It is a good idea to send
the table of contents to the contributing authors to confirm the
spelling of their names and affiliations. You then will be asked to
provide conference shipping information and the number of proceedings
needed for the conference.   

At the Conference
-----------------

At the meeting, give a short summary of the paper evaluation
process. Include the number of submissions, in what topical areas,
and the number of accepted papers. You might want to compare the
number of submissions and acceptances with the previous year (these
numbers should also be in the proceedings and the final report).
You should also explain the review process, e.g, how many PC
members reviewed each paper and the organization of the PC meeting.
You might want to talk about the geographic distribution of
submissions and any unusual trends. The summary should take about
15 minutes.  

After the Conference
--------------------

Help the Conference Chair prepare the post-event report for SIGPLAN EC.

As former Program Chair, you may be invited to serve on the
conference's Steering Committee. For the steering committee formal
rules for your particular conference, consult the relevant SIGPLAN
conference web page. Links to these pages can be be found
[here](/Conferences).  

The program chairs of the major SIGPLAN conferences, POPL, PLDI,
OOPSLA, and ICFP, are automatically on the selection committee for
the following year's
[SIGPLAN Programming Languages Achievement Award](/Awards/Achievement).  

Auxiliary Material
------------------

The ACM Digital Library and Sheridan Printing, who prepare many
ACM proceedings, are both set up to accept auxiliary material. The
SIGPLAN EC encourages SIGPLAN-sponsored conferences to accept such
material as part of the publication process. (Some conferences also
accept auxiliary material with submissions; this is an independent
issue.)

Auxiliary material may include

-   a technical report with additional details
-   source code for software
-   proof scripts for automated theorem provers
-   test data

or anything else relevant. It is SIGPLAN policy to encourage authors to
publish adequate auxiliary material to enable others to reproduce their
work.  Authors retain copyright of their auxiliary material, while copyright
of the paper can be either assigned to ACM or held by the authors. Referees
may examine auxiliary material, if it accompanies the submission, but this
should not be considered part of the review process. For an example of
auxiliary material in the Digital Library, see
[here](http://portal.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=1462173.1462178) and click on
"source materials".

[comment]: # (BCP) Some of that may need updating for newer artifact evaluation procedures

Important Email Addresses
-------------------------

_SIGPLAN Chair_:
[chair\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:chair_sigplan@acm.org)  
_SIGPLAN Vice Chair_:
[vc\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:vc_sigplan@acm.org)  
_SIGPLAN Information Director_:
[infodir\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:infodir_sigplan@acm.org?subject=Conference%20Information)  
_ACM Representative to SIGPLAN_ (Abigail Sumandal):
[sumandal@hq.acm.org](mailto:sumandal@hq.acm.org)

See Also
--------

- [Calendar of Upcoming SIGPLAN Conferences](http://campus.acm.org/calendar/index.cfm?Sponsor=SIGPLAN)
- ACM's *[How to Organize a Conference](http://www.acm.org/sigs/volunteer_resources/conference_manual/conference_manual-toc)* manual
- [ACM's How to Organize a Conference](http://www.acm.org/sigs/volunteer_resources/conference_manual/manual_read_me)
- SIGPLAN conference style [LaTeX class file](http://www.sigplan.org/sites/default/files/sigplanconf.cls),
  [article template](http://www.sigplan.org/sites/default/files/sigplanconf-template.tex), and
  [user guide](http://www.sigplan.org/sites/default/files/sigplanconf-guide.pdf)
- [Author Information for SIGPLAN Conferences](/Resources/Author)
- [Guidelines for Referees](/Resources/Guidelines/Referees)

Some columns containing useful advice for conference organizers have
been published in _SIGPLAN Notices_ over the years:

[comment]: # (BCP) Somewhat dated:

- [Experiences with Author Response at PLDI and ICFP 2004](http://portalparts.acm.org/1060000/1052883/fm/frontmatter.pdf), Kathleen Fisher and Craig Chambers, (*SIGPLAN Notices*, Dec. 2004)
- [Conferences with improved management and style](http://portalparts.acm.org/1140000/1137933/fm/frontmatter.pdf), Philip Wadler (*SIGPLAN Notices*, Feb. 2006)
- [SIGPLAN EC Activities: Vice Chair Report](http://portalparts.acm.org/1150000/1149982/fm/frontmatter.pdf), Kathleen Fisher (*SIGPLAN Notices*, May 2006)
- [A Report from the POPL 2007 Chairman](http://portalparts.acm.org/1230000/1229493/fm/frontmatter.pdf), Matthias Felleisen (*SIGPLAN Notices*, December 2006)
- [How to chair a conference](http://portalparts.acm.org/1990000/1988042/fm/frontmatter.pdf), Alex Aiken (*SIGPLAN Notices*, April 2011)
- [POPL'12 program chair's report: (or, how to run a medium-sized conference)](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2442779), Michael Hicks (*SIGPLAN Notices*, April 2012)
- [Artifact evaluation for software conferences](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2502518), Shriram Krishnamurthi (*SIGPLAN Notices*, April 2013)
- [The OOPSLA two-phase review process](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2641648), Cristina V. Lopes (*SIGPLAN Notices*, April 2014)
- [A Handbook for [ECOOP] PC Chairs](http://www.pps.univ-paris-diderot.fr/~gc/papers/pc-handbook.pdf), Giuseppe Castagna
