Resources/Guidelines/Workshops.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "Guidelines about Workshops"
---

SIGPLAN-sponsored conferences often organize a program of affiliated
workshops in addition to the main conference program. These workshops are
beneficial to the community&mdash;attracting participants, fostering
discussion, encouraging students, and so on&mdash;and are strongly supported
by SIGPLAN.

By and large, there are two kinds of workshops.  The first kind require
SIGPLAN EC approval, have a PC, use the SIGPLAN name, and publish their
proceedings (if any) in the ACM DL; the second kind require approval only by
the conference organizers and not by SIGPLAN EC, need not have a PC, cannot
use the SIGPLAN name, and should not publish proceedings. In this document
we call them *SIGPLAN-approved workshops* and *conference-approved
workshops*.

SIGPLAN-approved workshops
--------------------------

**Requirements:**

* A SIGPLAN-approved workshop has a call for submissions and a submission
  deadline.
* Submissions are evaluated by a Program Committee, and thus subject to peer
  review.
* The Program Committee respects the SIGPLAN Diversity Policy.
* The proposal for a SIGPLAN-approved workshop, including the composition of
  the Program Committee, is approved by the SIGPLAN Executive Committee.
* If there is a proceedings of any kind, the proceedings must be lodged in
  the ACM Digital Library, and the papers in it are considered published.

**Suggestions:**

* SIGPLAN-approved workshops are usually but not necessarily colocated with
  a SIGPLAN host conference.
* The "submissions" need not be full papers - they may be abstracts, talk
  proposals, etc.
* The workshop organizers may choose for there to be no proceedings.
* The workshop may use the SIGPLAN name in its title and the SIGPLAN logo on
  its materials.

Conference-approved workshops
-----------------------------

**Requirements:**

* A conference-approved workshop is organized under the aegis of a SIGPLAN
  host conference.
* Accepted submissions must not be published in any way, and they do not
  become part of the ACM Digital Library.
* A conference-approved workshop may not use the SIGPLAN name or logo.  It
  may, however, use the name of the host conference.

**Suggestions:**

* If there are submitted or accepted papers, workshop organizers are
  encouraged to keep them short; from two to six 2-column ACM pages is often
  appropriate.
* Organizers may wish to select participants by explicitly soliciting
  abstracts or position statements, and directly issuing invitations to
  panellists or discussion leaders.
* Although a conference-approved workshop may not collect submissions into a
  proceedings, it may create a "workshop summary" that is not peer-reviewed,
  but which is included within the host conference "companion" or posted on
  a web site.  The summary may include talk abstracts, talk slides, talk
  videos, and other information intended as an informal record of the
  workshop.  These materials are not considered published, and they are not
  expected to be cited in future publications.  (That is, subsequent authors
  may choose to cite these materials, as they may for any other "grey
  literature", but they need not.)

Comments
--------

* Whether SIGPLAN-approved or conference-approved, workshops located
  alongside a larger conference are typically organized through the host
  conference, either via the General Chair of the host conference or by
  delegation to a Workshops Chair.
* A conference-approved workshop need not have a Program Committee or a Call
  for Papers; it might be just a Birds-of-a-Feather session.
* Accepted submissions often present work in progress for early access. Some
  will subsequently be extended into full papers for submission and peer
  review elsewhere.
* In accordance with the SIGPLAN Republication Policy, if it is the
  intention that presentation at the workshop should not preclude
  publication elsewhere, then this should be clearly stated in the call for
  papers and in any workshop record.
* A conference-approved workshop is not subject to approval by the SIGPLAN
  Executive Committee; it is sufficient for the organizers of the host
  conference to be satisfied as to the workshop's quality and integrity.
* Both kinds of workshop are valuable, and SIGPLAN encourages them
  equally. But clarity about the two distinct kinds is valuable too, and
  "hybrid" arrangements risk causing confusion among the community. SIGPLAN
  does not endorse hybrids, such as workshops with proceedings in the DL but
  no formal CFP or no PC, or full papers in the DL that are not intended to
  be considered as "formally published".


Guidelines for Workshop Organizers
----------------------------------

The primary decision you need to make is whether your workshop should be
"SIGPLAN-approved" or "conference-approved", in the sense discussed
above. If you intend for submissions to be polished papers, lodged in the DL
for posterity, and permanently citable, you should go the "SIGPLAN-approved"
route; you will need to select a Program Committee (paying attention to
SIGPLAN's [Diversity Policy](/Resources/Policies/Diversity)), have it
approved by the SIGPLAN Executive Committee, distribute a call for papers,
review submissions, and so on. If instead you want to attract work in
progress and do not want to discourage authors from submitting substantially
the same work as a full paper elsewhere, then you might go the
"conference-approved" route.

If you want to organize a SIGPLAN-sponsored workshop, by far the simplest
way to do so is as part of a SIGPLAN-sponsored conference; otherwise, the
effort of managing the finances is likely to be out of proportion with the
size of the event. The main four SIGPLAN conferences (POPL, PLDI, ICFP,
SPLASH) each have a Workshops Chair and a formal Call for Workshop
Proposals; submit your proposal in response to this call, and the Workshops
Chair will guide you through the process of setting up your workshop. For
the other SIGPLAN conferences, the role of Workshops Chair is usually played
by the General Chair; you should contact them directly, as there need be no
formal call for proposals.

**Warning for organizers of conference-approved workshops**: You may choose
to make submissions publicly available, for example by linking them on a
workshop webpage. But please be aware that, although SIGPLAN encourages
presentation and discussion of work in progress in this way, it has no
control over subsequent publication venues. The only way to be sure that a
presentation of work in progress at your workshop does not preclude later
publication of a closely related paper is not to make submissions publicly
available.


Instructions for Workshop Chairs of SIGPLAN Conferences
-------------------------------------------------------

* Decide on a timeline for proposals. Consider having a deadline for early
  decisions on a gathered field of proposals, followed by first-come
  first-served decisions as space permits about later proposals.
* The host conference should manage the finances of sponsored workshops;
  liaise with the General Chair about this.
* Distribute a Call for Workshop Proposals widely. You want to encourage new
  workshops, as well as repeats of previous years'.
* You may choose to invite proposals for SIGPLAN-approved workshops,
  conference-approved workshops, or both.
* SIGPLAN-approved workshops need approval from SIGPLAN EC, so you should
  collect from proposers at least the information listed under _How to
  Apply_ on the [Guidelines for Sponsored 
  Events](http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Proposals/Sponsored)
  page&mdash;except for item 10 on finances. Collate this information and
  submit it to the SIGPLAN Vice Chair for approval.
* Conference-approved workshops need only the approval of the conference
  General Chair. Note that such informal workshops cannot use the name
  "SIGPLAN" in their title, nor the SIGPLAN logo on their webpage. Accepted
  submissions will not appear in the ACM DL, although a combined "workshop
  summary" may.
* Don't forget that workshop presenters are eligible to apply for the
  [PAC Fund](http://www.sigplan.org/PAC.htm); you may want to encourage
  organizers to mention this in the CFP.

Commit message:

Found another place where it's useful to point at the PC template spreadsheet.

Resources/Guidelines/Workshops.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "Guidelines about Workshops"
---

SIGPLAN-sponsored conferences often organize a program of affiliated
workshops in addition to the main conference program. These workshops are
beneficial to the community&mdash;attracting participants, fostering
discussion, encouraging students, and so on&mdash;and are strongly supported
by SIGPLAN.

By and large, there are two kinds of workshops.  The first kind require
SIGPLAN EC approval, have a PC, use the SIGPLAN name, and publish their
proceedings (if any) in the ACM DL; the second kind require approval only by
the conference organizers and not by SIGPLAN EC, need not have a PC, cannot
use the SIGPLAN name, and should not publish proceedings. In this document
we call them *SIGPLAN-approved workshops* and *conference-approved
workshops*.

SIGPLAN-approved workshops
--------------------------

**Requirements:**

* A SIGPLAN-approved workshop has a call for submissions and a submission
  deadline.
* Submissions are evaluated by a Program Committee, and thus subject to peer
  review.
* The Program Committee respects the SIGPLAN Diversity Policy.
* The proposal for a SIGPLAN-approved workshop, including the composition of
  the Program Committee, is approved by the SIGPLAN Executive Committee.
* If there is a proceedings of any kind, the proceedings must be lodged in
  the ACM Digital Library, and the papers in it are considered published.

**Suggestions:**

* SIGPLAN-approved workshops are usually but not necessarily colocated with
  a SIGPLAN host conference.
* The "submissions" need not be full papers - they may be abstracts, talk
  proposals, etc.
* The workshop organizers may choose for there to be no proceedings.
* The workshop may use the SIGPLAN name in its title and the SIGPLAN logo on
  its materials.

Conference-approved workshops
-----------------------------

**Requirements:**

* A conference-approved workshop is organized under the aegis of a SIGPLAN
  host conference.
* Accepted submissions must not be published in any way, and they do not
  become part of the ACM Digital Library.
* A conference-approved workshop may not use the SIGPLAN name or logo.  It
  may, however, use the name of the host conference.

**Suggestions:**

* If there are submitted or accepted papers, workshop organizers are
  encouraged to keep them short; from two to six 2-column ACM pages is often
  appropriate.
* Organizers may wish to select participants by explicitly soliciting
  abstracts or position statements, and directly issuing invitations to
  panellists or discussion leaders.
* Although a conference-approved workshop may not collect submissions into a
  proceedings, it may create a "workshop summary" that is not peer-reviewed,
  but which is included within the host conference "companion" or posted on
  a web site.  The summary may include talk abstracts, talk slides, talk
  videos, and other information intended as an informal record of the
  workshop.  These materials are not considered published, and they are not
  expected to be cited in future publications.  (That is, subsequent authors
  may choose to cite these materials, as they may for any other "grey
  literature", but they need not.)

Comments
--------

* Whether SIGPLAN-approved or conference-approved, workshops located
  alongside a larger conference are typically organized through the host
  conference, either via the General Chair of the host conference or by
  delegation to a Workshops Chair.
* A conference-approved workshop need not have a Program Committee or a Call
  for Papers; it might be just a Birds-of-a-Feather session.
* Accepted submissions often present work in progress for early access. Some
  will subsequently be extended into full papers for submission and peer
  review elsewhere.
* In accordance with the SIGPLAN Republication Policy, if it is the
  intention that presentation at the workshop should not preclude
  publication elsewhere, then this should be clearly stated in the call for
  papers and in any workshop record.
* A conference-approved workshop is not subject to approval by the SIGPLAN
  Executive Committee; it is sufficient for the organizers of the host
  conference to be satisfied as to the workshop's quality and integrity.
* Both kinds of workshop are valuable, and SIGPLAN encourages them
  equally. But clarity about the two distinct kinds is valuable too, and
  "hybrid" arrangements risk causing confusion among the community. SIGPLAN
  does not endorse hybrids, such as workshops with proceedings in the DL but
  no formal CFP or no PC, or full papers in the DL that are not intended to
  be considered as "formally published".


Guidelines for Workshop Organizers
----------------------------------

The primary decision you need to make is whether your workshop should be
"SIGPLAN-approved" or "conference-approved", in the sense discussed
above. If you intend for submissions to be polished papers, lodged in the DL
for posterity, and permanently citable, you should go the "SIGPLAN-approved"
route; you will need to select a Program Committee (paying attention to
SIGPLAN's [Diversity Policy](/Resources/Policies/Diversity)), Download the [PC proposal
spreadsheet](/Resources/Guidelines/sigplan-pc-proposal-template.xlsx)
template and enter the requested information for your proposed PC members
and alternates, send the completed spreadsheet to the SIGPLAN Vice Chair
([vc\_sigplan@acm.org](mailto:vc_sigplan@acm.org)) for comments and approval
by the SIGPLAN Executive Committee, distribute a call for papers,
review submissions, and so on. If instead you want to attract work in
progress and do not want to discourage authors from submitting substantially
the same work as a full paper elsewhere, then you might go the
"conference-approved" route.

If you want to organize a SIGPLAN-sponsored workshop, by far the simplest
way to do so is as part of a SIGPLAN-sponsored conference; otherwise, the
effort of managing the finances is likely to be out of proportion with the
size of the event. The main four SIGPLAN conferences (POPL, PLDI, ICFP,
SPLASH) each have a Workshops Chair and a formal Call for Workshop
Proposals; submit your proposal in response to this call, and the Workshops
Chair will guide you through the process of setting up your workshop. For
the other SIGPLAN conferences, the role of Workshops Chair is usually played
by the General Chair; you should contact them directly, as there need be no
formal call for proposals.

**Warning for organizers of conference-approved workshops**: You may choose
to make submissions publicly available, for example by linking them on a
workshop webpage. But please be aware that, although SIGPLAN encourages
presentation and discussion of work in progress in this way, it has no
control over subsequent publication venues. The only way to be sure that a
presentation of work in progress at your workshop does not preclude later
publication of a closely related paper is not to make submissions publicly
available.


Instructions for Workshop Chairs of SIGPLAN Conferences
-------------------------------------------------------

* Decide on a timeline for proposals. Consider having a deadline for early
  decisions on a gathered field of proposals, followed by first-come
  first-served decisions as space permits about later proposals.
* The host conference should manage the finances of sponsored workshops;
  liaise with the General Chair about this.
* Distribute a Call for Workshop Proposals widely. You want to encourage new
  workshops, as well as repeats of previous years'.
* You may choose to invite proposals for SIGPLAN-approved workshops,
  conference-approved workshops, or both.
* SIGPLAN-approved workshops need approval from SIGPLAN EC, so you should
  collect from proposers at least the information listed under _How to
  Apply_ on the [Guidelines for Sponsored 
  Events](http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Proposals/Sponsored)
  page&mdash;except for item 10 on finances. Collate this information and
  submit it to the SIGPLAN Vice Chair for approval.
* Conference-approved workshops need only the approval of the conference
  General Chair. Note that such informal workshops cannot use the name
  "SIGPLAN" in their title, nor the SIGPLAN logo on their webpage. Accepted
  submissions will not appear in the ACM DL, although a combined "workshop
  summary" may.
* Don't forget that workshop presenters are eligible to apply for the
  [PAC Fund](http://www.sigplan.org/PAC.htm); you may want to encourage
  organizers to mention this in the CFP.
