---
layout: default
title: "2006: Julia L. Lawall and Harry G. Mairson"
---
> (for 1996) [Optimality and inefficiency: what isn't a cost model of the lambda calculus?](http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/232627.232639)
> 
> **Citation**
> 
> Julia Lawall and Harry Mairson's 1996 ICFP paper "Optimality and
> inefficiency: What isn't a cost model of the lambda calculus?"
> exposed a fundamental problem with proposed algorithms for optimal
> reduction. Starting with Jean-Jacques L&#233;vy's seminal work in 1978,
> the goal of optimal reduction was to correctly normalize
> lambda-calculus terms without duplicating redexes. Various
> strategies were subsequently devised to realize optimal reduction,
> notably the solution of John Lamping at POPL 1990, then simplified
> and improved by Georges Gonthier, Mart&#237;n Abadi, and Jean-Jacques
> L&#233;vy at POPL 1992. Each solution used subtle bookkeeping mechanisms
> to control sharing.
> 
> Lawall and Mairson showed that these bookkeeping mechanisms
> introduced a complexity and inefficiency of their own. They
> discovered terms that could be normalized in linear time, but whose
> bookkeeping costs required exponential time. They further showed
> that Frandsen and Sturtivant's cost model for lambda-calculus
> reduction, presented at FPCA 1991, needed to account for the size
> of intermediate terms, and that optimal-evaluation interpreters
> were at least exponentially slower than the proposed cost model.
> Lawall and Mairson concluded that the notion of optimality did not
> necessarily coincide with that of efficiency. As a consequence,
> different and possibly optimal evaluation strategies were still
> needed, as were more realistic cost models. Subsequent work in this
> area has focused on such cost models, on further analysis of the
> inherent complexity of optimal reduction, and on relaxing the
> optimality condition in exchange for lower bookkeeping overhead and
> greater overall efficiency.
