---
layout: default
title: "2010: Vasanth Bala, Evelyn Duesterwald, Sanjeev Banerji"
---
> (for 2000) [Dynamo: A Transparent Dynamic Optimization System](http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/349299.349303),
> 
> **Citation**
> 
> "Dynamo pioneered the technique of monitoring, analyzing, and
> optimizing binary code on-the-fly while the program executes,
> without relying on any program modifications, compiler hints,
> profile data from prior runs, or special purpose hardware. Contrary
> to intuition, one could use Dynamo to substantially improve the
> performance of a binary's execution, even when it was generated by
> a state-of-the-art optimizing compiler. By continuously monitoring
> its own overhead, Dynamo could suspend itself (and resume later)
> when the optimization gains were not sufficient to offset the cost
> of its own operation. The ability for a software-only system to
> speed up a program binary without any kind of modification or
> externally provided hints challenged much entrenched thinking at
> the time, and catalyzed a rethinking of the compiler-architecture
> interface. Hardware designs were shifting more of the performance
> optimization burden from the hardware to the compiler. At the same
> time software was moving towards greater use of dynamic binding,
> resulting in a shrinking optimization scope for the compiler. These
> two trends were in tension with one another. By operating at binary
> execution time, Dynamo helped bridge this growing gap by
> complementing the compiler's traditional strength in static control
> flow based optimization with instruction-level runtime trace-based
> optimization. This paper was the first in a series of publications
> that continue to this day on similar trace-based systems for
> dynamic binary optimization, dynamic binary instrumentation, and
> dynamic binary translation."
