Resources/Policies/CodeOfConduct.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "SIGPLAN Conference Code of Conduct Policy"
---
The open exchange of ideas and the freedom of thought and
expression are central to the aims and goals of SIGPLAN; these
require an environment that recognizes the inherent worth of every
person and group, that fosters dignity, understanding, and mutual
respect, and that embraces diversity. For these reasons, SIGPLAN
is dedicated to providing a harassment-free conference experience, 
and implements the 
[ACM Code of Conduct](http://www.acm.org/sigs/volunteer_resources/officers_manual/code%20of%20conduct).

Conference participants violating these standards may be sanctioned
or expelled from the conference, at the discretion of the
conference organizers. Conference organizers are requested to
report serious incidents to the SIGPLAN Vice Chair.

-----------------

A useful resource is the
[Geek Feminism Wiki](http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/index.php?title=Conference_anti-harassment_policy),
which includes models for public announcements and guidance for
conference staff.

If you hear an inappropriate remark, intended or misjudged, this list of
[comebacks](http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Good_sexism_comebacks) may prove useful.

Commit message:

Update link to ACM Policy Against Discrimination and Harassment

Resources/Policies/CodeOfConduct.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "SIGPLAN Conference Code of Conduct Policy"
---

The open exchange of ideas and the freedom of thought and
expression are central to the aims and goals of SIGPLAN; these
require an environment that recognizes the inherent worth of every
person and group, that fosters dignity, understanding, and mutual
respect, and that embraces diversity. For these reasons, SIGPLAN
is dedicated to providing a harassment-free conference experience, 
and abides by the
[ACM Policy Against Discrimination and Harassment](http://www.acm.org/special-interest-groups/volunteer-resources/officers-manual/policy-against-discrimination-and-harassment).

Conference participants violating these standards may be sanctioned
or expelled from the conference, at the discretion of the
conference organizers. Conference organizers are requested to
report serious incidents to the SIGPLAN Vice Chair.

-----------------

A useful resource is the
[Geek Feminism Wiki](http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/index.php?title=Conference_anti-harassment_policy),
which includes models for public announcements and guidance for
conference staff.

If you hear an inappropriate remark, intended or misjudged, this list of
[comebacks](http://geekfeminism.wikia.com/wiki/Good_sexism_comebacks) may prove useful.
