Resources/Policies/Diversity.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "SIGPLAN Diversity Policy"
---
SIGPLAN values diversity in the composition of the program and
organizing committees for its meetings, recognizing that there is a
large pool of people qualified to serve on the committees. Each
year, meeting organizers must choose a subset of these qualified
people to serve on program committees. People chosen to serve on
such committees are seen as leaders in the community, and hence we
must take pains to ensure that they are chosen fairly and represent
the breadth of the community. Diversity should also be considered
with respect to the composition of previous program committees to
ensure fair representation over time.  

Factors that organizers should consider when forming program
committees from the pool of qualified candidates include:

1.  Coverage of meeting topics
2.  Turnover: each year's committee should be substantially
    distinct from previous years'. Some overlap to promote continuity
    is permissible.
3.  Diversity of institution: there should be no more than
    two people from a given institution. 
    (Multiple sites for the same organization count as the same "institution". For large PCs, this may be relaxed to "no more than 10%, rounded to the nearest integer, from a given institution".)
4.  Type of institution: Industry, Academia, Government Laboratory,
    etc.
5.  Years of experience: committees should be a mix of junior,
    mid-level, and senior members of the community.
6.  Geographic distribution: members should come from all parts of
    the world active in the given research area.
7.  Gender.
8.  Ethnic background.

Meeting organizers are required to submit their organizing and
program committees to the
[SIGPLAN Vice Chair](mailto:vc_sigplan@acm.org?subject=Program%20Committee%20Approval)
for approval.

Commit message:

Further updates to better integrate the PC proposal spreadsheet into the many pages that mention PC formation

Resources/Policies/Diversity.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "SIGPLAN Diversity Policy"
---
SIGPLAN values diversity in the composition of the program and
organizing committees for its meetings, recognizing that there is a
large pool of people qualified to serve on the committees. Each
year, meeting organizers must choose a subset of these qualified
people to serve on program committees. People chosen to serve on
such committees are seen as leaders in the community, and hence we
must take pains to ensure that they are chosen fairly and represent
the breadth of the community. Diversity should also be considered
with respect to the composition of previous program committees to
ensure fair representation over time.  

Factors that organizers should consider when forming program
committees from the pool of qualified candidates include:

1.  Coverage of meeting topics
2.  Turnover: each year's committee should be substantially
    distinct from previous years'. Some overlap to promote continuity
    is permissible.
3.  Diversity of institution: there should be no more than
    two people from a given institution. 
    (Multiple sites for the same organization count as the same "institution". For large PCs, this may be relaxed to "no more than 10%, rounded to the nearest integer, from a given institution".)
4.  Type of institution: Industry, Academia, Government Laboratory,
    etc.
5.  Years of experience: committees should be a mix of junior,
    mid-level, and senior members of the community.
6.  Geographic distribution: members should come from all parts of
    the world active in the given research area.
7.  Gender.
8.  Ethnic background.

Meeting organizers are required to submit their organizing and program
committees to the
[SIGPLAN Vice Chair](mailto:vc_sigplan@acm.org?subject=Program%20Committee%20Approval)
for approval, in the form of a
[PC proposal spreadsheet](/Resources/Guidelines/sigplan-pc-proposal-template.xlsx).
